                             Global Factor Premiums
                                         Guido Baltussen*
                                         Laurens Swinkels
                                            Pim Van Vliet


                                              Abstract
We examine 24 global factor premiums across the main asset classes via replication and
new-sample evidence spanning more than 200 years of data. Replication yields ambiguous
evidence within a unified testing framework with methods that account for p-hacking.
The new-sample evidence reveals that the large majority of global factors are strongly
present under conservative p-hacking perspectives, with limited out-of-sample decay of
the premiums. Further, utilizing our deep sample, we find global factor premiums to be
not driven by market, downside, or macroeconomic risks. These results reveal strong
global factor premiums that present a challenge to asset pricing theories.




                                      First version: April 2017
                                    This Version: January 2019



Keywords: factor premium, multiple hypotheses testing, p-hacking, return anomalies,
predictability, stocks, bonds, currencies, commodities, value, momentum, trend, carry,
betting-against-beta, seasonality.




                    JEL classification: C11, C12, F31, G11, G12, G15, N210




*Baltussen   (corresponding author) and Swinkels are from the Erasmus School of Economics, Erasmus
University Rotterdam and Robeco Institutional Asset Management. Email: baltussen@ese.eur.nl Van Vliet is
from Robeco Institutional Asset Management. We would like to thank David Blitz, Andrea Frazzini, Winfried
Hallerbach, Matthias Hanauer, Matti Keloharju, Ralph Koijen, Martin Martens, Lasse Pedersen, and Jeroen
van Zundert for valuable discussions and useful feedback. The views expressed in this study are not
necessarily shared by Robeco Institutional Asset Management. We welcome comments, including references
to related papers we have inadvertently overlooked.




                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
                                              I. Introduction
    In this paper we study global factors premiums over a long and wide sample spanning

the recent 217 years across equity index (but not single securities), bond, currency, and

commodity markets. Several recent influential studies document the presence of

significant factor premiums across these major asset classes. Moskowitz, Ooi, and

Pedersen (2012) show the presence of a ‘time-series momentum’ premium, Asness,

Moskowitz, and Pedersen (2013) reveal cross-sectional ‘momentum’ and ‘value’ premiums,

Koijen, Moskowitz, Pedersen, and Vrugt (2018) find a ‘carry’ premium, Keloharju,

Linnainmaa, and Nyberg (2016) discover a return seasonality premium, and Frazzini and

Pedersen (2014) document a ‘betting-against-beta’ premium. The sample periods in these

studies start typically around 1980 and confirm and extend earlier empirical asset pricing

studies which often focus on a single asset class, usually U.S. equities.1

    The first objective of this study is to robustly and rigorously examine these global

factor premiums from the perspective of ‘p-hacking’ (see Harvey, 2017). As scientists, we

are subject to statistical testing limitations, biased in the return anomalies we see

published, have several degrees of freedom (on areas like data manipulation, statistical

method, aggregation schemes, results we choose to present), and an incentive to publish.

Consequently, several major findings might reflect (a combination of) cherry-picking the

most significant results, a publication bias, a multiple hypothesis testing bias, and a type

I error in testing (i.e. falsely discovering predictability). As Harvey (2017) notes: “Given

the competition for top journal space, there is an incentive to produce “significant” results.

With the combination of unreported tests, lack of adjustment for multiple tests, and direct

and indirect p-hacking, many of the results being published will fail to hold up in the


1 Several papers show the presence of return factors for individual asset classes. For equities, ‘value’,
‘momentum’, and ‘low-risk’ are well documented (e.g. Fama and French 1993, Jegadeesh and Titman, 1993,
Blitz and Van Vliet, 2007). For currencies, Froot and Thaler (1990) and Barroso and Santa-Clara (2015)
document a ‘carry’ factor, Menkhoff et al. (2012) document a ‘momentum’ factor, while Abuaf and Jorion (1990)
and Menkhoff et al. (2017) document a ‘value’ factor. For commodities, Erb and Harvey (2006) document the
‘momentum’ factor. For bonds, Fama (1984) documents the term premium, also referred to as ‘carry’, and
Ilmanen (1995) documents a ‘value’ and ‘carry’ factor.

                                                     2



                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
future.”2 As a case in a point, Harvey, Liu, and Zhu (2016) find a clear publication bias

pattern in the top finance journals, and that of over 300 documented stock-level anomalies

many become questionable after analyzing these in a rigorous testing framework that

allows for multiple hypotheses testing bias.3

    We take as our starting point the main global return factors published in the Journal

of Finance and the Journal of Financial Economics during the period 2012-2018: time-

series    momentum          (henceforth      ‘trend’),     cross-sectional      momentum         (henceforth

‘momentum’), value, carry, return seasonality and betting-against-beta (henceforth

‘BAB’). We examine these global factors in four major asset classes: equity indices,

government bonds, commodities and currencies, hence resulting in a total of 24 global

return factors.4 We work from the idea that these published factor premiums could be

influenced by p-hacking and that an extended sample period is useful for falsification or

verification tests. Figure 1, Panel A summarizes the main results of these studies. Shown

are the reported Sharpe ratio’s in previous publications, as well as the 5% significance

cutoff in the grey-colored dashed line. In general, the studies show evidence on the global

factor premiums, with 14 of the 22 factors (return seasonality is not tested in bonds and

currencies) displaying significant Sharpe ratio’s at the conventional 5% significance level.



                                      INSERT FIGURE 1 HERE



2  P-hacking is not limited to financial economics. P-hacking is mostly discussed in social sciences and
medicine. The Economist discussed the topic in 2013 with the headline title: ‘ How science goes wrong’. Begley
and Ellis (2012) show that out of 53 studies on pre-clinical cancer only 11% could be replicated. An open
science collaboration (2015) shows that out of 97 significant psychological studies only 36 could be replicated.
In behavioral economics, Camerer et al. (2016) find that out of 18 laboratory studies in economics 11 can be
replicated.
3 In a similar spirit, Hou, Xue, and Zhang (2017) find that 64% (85%) of almost 450 documented anomalies

have t-statistics below two (three) when the importance of small and micro capitalization stocks is reduced.
Chordia, Goyal, and Saretto (2017) show with a data mining approach that of about 2.1 million possible
trading strategies only a small group survives after correcting for a multiple hypothesis testing bias, or as
they state after using the “proper statistical hurdles”. Moreover, the few surviving trading strategies seem to
have no apparent theoretical underpinning. Further, Linnainmaa and Roberts (2018) show that when tested
out of sample, many equity anomalies are weak and those that persist do so typically at about half of their
original size.
4 In this paper we focus on global market data in an uniform set of asset classes, and do not include individual

U.S. stocks, international stocks or other company-level securities.

                                                       3



                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
    The question is what could be the impact of p-hacking on these numbers? To this end,

we next turn to methods proposed against p-hacking. First, the black-colored dashed line

in Figure 1 shows the 3.00 t-value cutoff advocated by Harvey, Liu, and Zhu (2016) and

others.5 Utilizing this cutoff only 10 of the 22 factor premiums are significant. Second, we

apply the Bayesian perspective on p-values advocated by Harvey (2017), using a

symmetric and descending minimum Bayes factor with “Perhaps” prior odds ratio 4:1.

The numbers above each bar in Figure 1 indicate these “Bayesianized” p-values. Using

this approach, we find that just 8 of the 22 factor premiums are significant.

    Further, most of the studies have differences in, amongst others, testing

methodologies, investment universes and sample periods, choices that introduce degrees

of freedom to the researcher. To mitigate the impact of such degrees of freedom, we

reexamine the global return factors using uniform choices on testing methodology and

investment universe over their average sample period (1981-2011). Note that for

uniformity this now includes testing return seasonality for bonds and currencies, which

was not done in the original publication. Figure 1, Panel B shows the results of this

replicating exercise. We find that Sharpe ratios are marginally lower, with 12 of the 24

factor premiums being significant at the conventional 5% level. Utilizing the 3.00 t-value

cutoff, eight are significant, while only six factor premiums have Bayesian p-values below

5%.6


5 Harvey, Liu, and Zhu (2016) conclude their analysis on the multiple testing bias in hypothesis testing in

finance by advocating a t-statistic hurdle of 3 for factors to be deemed statistically interesting. Similarly,
Benjamin et al. (2018) propose to redefine statistical significance across disciplines from the usual arbitrary
p-value of 0.05 to an equally arbitrary, but stricter p-value of 0.005, thereby essentially increasing the t-
statistic ‘hurdle’ from 1.96 to 2.81. They recommend employing statistical techniques to deal with multiple
testing and Bayesian inference. However, this higher t-value is an easy step to implement, and the other
techniques may be more technically demanding or there is no general agreement about their use. Harvey,
Liu, and Zhu (2016)’s suggestion of increasing the t-statistic to 3 is thus very similar to the proposal of
Benjamin et al. (2018).
6 One could argue that another way to limit sensitivity to p-hacking is to combine the information of each

factor across the different asset classes. An objection against such a multi-asset aggregation of evidence is
that the factor premiums tend to be lowly correlated across asset classes. Nevertheless, when we apply such
an aggregation, we find that four of these six multi-asset combinations exceed the 1.96 and 3.00 t-value cut-
offs, while three of the six have Bayesian p-values below 5%.

                                                      4



                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
   One downside of the Bayesian approach above is the subjectivity required in the

formulation of prior odds, subjectivity that typically has a substantial impact on the

Bayesian p-value. To this end, we introduce a new perspective on p-hacking: the

formulation of ‘break-even’ prior odds, or those prior odds at which the Bayesian p-value

would equal the confidence level chosen. These break-even prior odds remove the need to

specify the prior-odds (but do require the confidence level), and allow for an interpretation

in terms of prior odds that would be required to just accept the alternative. Only in 3 out

of 24 cases the break-even odds exceed 5. These break-even odds ratios imply that one

does not need to be extremely skeptical to disregard the empirical evidence provided in

the literature. This leaves us to conclude that further analysis to these global return

factors is warranted using new and independent data, in line with the recommendation

of amongst others Arnott, Harvey, and Markowitz (2018).

   The second objective of this study is to provide rigorous new sample evidence on the

global return factors. To this end, we construct a deep, largely uncovered historical global

database on the global return factors in the four major asset classes. This data consists of

pre-sample data spanning the period 1800- 1980, supplemented with post-sample data

from 2012-2016, such that we have an extensive new sample to conduct further analyses.

If the global return factors were unintentionally the result of p-hacking, we would expect

them to disappear for this new sample period.

   Our new sample findings reveal consistent and ubiquitous evidence for the large

majority of global return factors. Figure 1, Panel C summarizes our main findings by

depicting the historical Sharpe ratio’s in the new sample period. In terms of economic

significance, the Sharpe ratios are substantial, with an average of 0.41. Remarkably, in

contrast to most out-of-sample studies (see for example Linnainmaa and Roberts, 2018),

we see very limited ‘out-of-sample’ decay of factor premiums (the average in-sample

Sharpe ratio is similar). In terms of statistical significance and p-hacking perspectives,



                                              5



                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
19 of the 24 t-values are above 3.0,19 Bayesian p-values are below 5%, and the break-even

prior odds generally need to be above 9,999 to have less than 5% probability that the null

hypothesis is true. Such extremely large odds imply that one needs to be extremely

skeptical to disregard the empirical evidence provided in this study. As a main exception,

the BAB effect is present in equity markets in both samples, but the evidence is less robust

for the commodity and currency markets.7 Return seasonality in government bonds and

currencies are significant factor premiums and are an extension of the empirical asset

pricing literature.8

    Next, to mitigate the influence of p-hacking we report the robustness of the global

return factors to common degrees of freedom to the researcher. To this end we employ

rolling 10-year sample periods and robustness checks with regard to the various degrees

of freedom in testing, such as the period of rebalancing, accounting for lagged

implementation, the exact portfolio construction method, and the trimming of extreme

positive returns. We find the global return factors to be robust to these choices.

    The third objective of this study is to gain further insights into the economic

explanations of the global factor premiums using our full sample period ranging from 1800

to 2016. We first test the uniqueness of the factor premiums, as true commonality might

be observable especially over the longer run. Our findings reveal that most return factors

are largely uncorrelated; nor do they span each other. Trend factors form an exception in

that they encompass momentum factors, thereby extending the findings of Moskowitz,

Ooi, and Pedersen (2012) to a deep sample. These findings suggest that it is diﬃcult to

formulate a single uniform explanation based on a common global component.



7 This may not be that surprising, as the original study already reported weak evidence for these three asset

classes. We also find BAB in the cross-section of country bonds to be below our statistical hurdles (as in
Frazzini and Pedersen, 2014), but we do not include yield curves due to lack of deep historical data for different
maturities. Frazzini and Pedersen (2014) find especially strong results for BAB applied to bonds across the
curve within a single country which can explain differences in results. We therefore expect a stronger low-
risk premium for bonds if these data were available.
8 Five factors pass both the strict Bayesian p-value (8 out of 22) and the pre-sample test (18 out of 22): trend

in equities, bonds and commodities, momentum in equities, and finally carry in equities and bonds.

                                                        6



                    Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
    Next, we test if the global return factors can be reconciled with market risk, downside

risk and macroeconomic risks. The theory suggests that expected returns can vary due to

market risk, downside risk (Bawa and Lindenberg, 1977) or macroeconomic risk (Chen,

Roll, and Ross, 1986, Fama and French, 1989, Ferson and Harvey, 1991).9 The common

sample (1981-2011) based on the past decades might be biased, given that they were quite

exceptional (no major wars, growing global prosperity and only a few large recessions or

periods of social unrest), which severely limits the number of ‘bad states’. Our extensive

multi-century sample includes a substantial number of bad states, with for example many

bear markets (43 years) or recessions (74 years). It therefore allows us to more deeply

examine to which extent the global return factors can be explained by market risk,

downside risk, or macroeconomic risk.

    We find no supporting evidence for (unified) explanations of the global factor returns

based on market, downside, or macroeconomic risk. Jensen’s alphas give a similar picture

to the Sharpe ratios. Moreover, downside risk has limited explanatory power for the global

factor premiums and a downside risk pricing model is rejected by the data. For carry we

find some sensitivity to downside risk, but this is at best only a partial and limited

explanation, in line with the findings of Koijen et al. (2018). Finally, we ﬁnd no clear

evidence that macroeconomic risks drive the return on the global return factors when

comparing macroeconomic states and unconditional and conditional macroeconomic risk

tests as employed by Chordia and Shivakumar (2002), Griffin, Ji and Martin (2003) and

Keloharju, Linnainmaa, and Nyberg (2016). First, we generally cannot reject the null

hypothesis that the average returns on the global return factors are the same during

global recessionary and expansionary periods or other proxies for good or bad

macroeconomic states. Second, the global return factors bear basically no statistically or


9 Asness, Moskowitz and Pedersen (2013) show that global macroeconomic variables are generally not related

to value and momentum returns, while Keloharju, Linnainmaa, and Nyberg (2016) find that seasonality
returns are hard to reconcile with macroeconomic risks. Koijen et al. (2018) report that carry return
drawdowns are more likely to occur during global recession periods.

                                                    7



                  Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
economically significant relation to common global macroeconomic factors. Third, the

predicted payoffs on the global return factors due to macroeconomic variables (e.g., based

on the conditional forecasting approach proposed by Chordia and Shivakumar, 2002) can

at best explain a small fraction of the total payoffs.

   This study is not the first to utilize deep historical samples to study market premiums.

For equity and bond premiums, Siegel (1992) gives evidence stretching back to 1800,

Goetzmann (1993) to 1695, and Golez and Koudijs (2018) go even further back to 1629.

Hurst, Ooi, and Pederson (2017) find a persistent trend premium going back to 1880,

while Goetzmann and Huang (2018) show that stock-level momentum worked in imperial

Russia in the period 1865-1914. Further, Doskov and Swinkels (2015) and Taylor (2002)

find that carry and value premiums are present in currency markets since 1900. These

historical studies typically focus on a single factor (e.g. momentum), a single market (often

the U.S.), or a single asset class (typically stocks) and typically employ different

methodologies. In this study, we focus on a broad range of global return factors across a

broad range of markets using an uniform testing methodology and addressing p-hacking

concerns.

   The remainder of this paper is structured as follows: Section II describes the original

studies and the results of our replication exercises from an economic and p-hacking

perspective. It also introduces the Bayesian concept of break-even prior odds. In Section

III, we introduce our newly constructed deep historical database that starts in 1800, which

allows us to evaluate global factor returns over a period that has mostly been unexplored

in previous research. Section IV tests economic explanations of global return factors using

this deep sample. Section V presents our conclusions. The appendices contain more details

about the data and portfolio construction methods, as well as additional results.




                                              8



                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
               II. Replicating and p-hacking insights on the recent sample

    We start our study by summarizing the main results and testing choices made in the

original studies, followed by our replication exercise. We incorporate economic, traditional

statistical, and Bayesian perspectives that account for p-hacking. Further, we introduce

a new perspective on p-hacking; the concept of break-even prior odds.



                                            A. Original studies

    We base our paper on five key studies that were published in the Journal of Finance

and the Journal of Financial Economics during the period 2012-2018, documenting global

return factors across the major asset classes: trend, momentum, value, carry, return

seasonality, and BAB. Throughout this study, we choose to focus on broad assets within

four major asset classes generally shared by these five key studies: international equity

indices, 10-year government bond indices, commodities, and currencies.10 Table I

summarizes the main findings of, and testing choices made by, these studies for the four

asset classes that we consider. The table further contains the definitions used for each

factor within each asset class, the reported statistical and economic significance, the

sample period, the portfolio construction method, and the number of assets within each

asset class.


                                       INSERT TABLE I HERE


    As becomes clear from Table I, these studies report evidence supporting the global

return factors across the four major asset classes we study. The Sharpe ratios for each of

the 22 global return factors are positive (return seasonality is not tested in bonds and

currencies), with many above 0.3, while t-values are generally well over two for 14 out of




10 Note that we ignore asset classes that lack deeper historical data, but are included in one or two specific

studies. These include, for example, credit markets and option markets. Further, we choose to focus on global
markets, leaving the most widely studied asset class, single name stock markets, to further study.

                                                      9



                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
22 factors. Especially carry and trend have high t-values for each individual asset class,

corresponding to high conventional levels of significance. Value is relatively weaker, with

t-values below 1.96 for three out of four asset classes.


   In addition, although the studies have many similarities, several degrees of freedom

in testing are accommodated differently (driven by sample selection choices, data

limitations, etc.). For example, the start dates range from 1972 for equity value and cross-

sectional momentum, to 1989 for BAB for bond indices and commodities. The portfolio

construction method for trend strategies is required to be different from the other factors,

but for the cross-sectional anomalies there are also two different methods: forming equally

weighted portfolios for the top and bottom terciles and comparing the returns between

these two portfolios, or taking a position proportional to the rank of the asset in the cross-

section, with long positions for assets above the median, and short positions for those

below the median. Moreover, the maximum number of assets varies across studies.



                                        B. Replication

   Next, we replicate these original studies in a unified testing framework in which we

limit the degrees of freedom. We utilize (i) a uniform sample period, (ii) a uniform cross-

section of assets, and (iii) a uniform factor construction method for the cross-sectional

factors. However, we verify that the results below are robust and stand up to variation in

the settings shown in Table I, as shown in Appendix Table B.1. We take as our sample

period the average start and end years used in the original studies: 1981-2011.


   More specifically, we consider four major global asset classes in developed markets:

international equity indices, 10-year government bond indices, commodities, and

currencies. Within each asset class we construct factor portfolios on each of the factors

(the definitions and their motivations can be found in Appendix A.I). In a nutshell, trend

and momentum are defined as the 12-month-minus-1-month excess return. Value is

                                             10



                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
defined as dividend yield for equity indices, real yield for bonds, 5-year reversal in spot

prices for commodities, and absolute and relative purchasing power parity for currencies.

Carry is defined as the implied yield on each instrument. Return seasonality is defined as

the return on an asset in a certain month over the prior 20 years. BAB is long the low

beta assets and short the high beta assets with positions neutralized for the ex-ante beta

relative to the global asset class portfolio return.


   We construct factor investment portfolios at the end of every month in the spirit of

their original papers. For the trend factor, which is directional in nature, we go long

(short) markets in each asset class when the trend measure is positive (negative),

following Moskowitz, Ooi, and Pedersen (2012). For the other factors, which are all cross-

sectional in nature, we rank the markets in each investment universe based on the factor

measure and take a position equal to the rank minus its cross-sectional average. This

procedure is similar to that used by Asness, Moskowitz, and Pedersen (2013), Frazzini

and Pedersen (2014), and Koijen et al. (2018). Further, we scale all positions and factors

to a constant ex-ante volatility or by the ex-ante beta (the latter in the case of BAB). Our

dataset is a collection from Bloomberg, Datastream and the OECD website. All returns

we consider are in excess of local financing rates and expressed in U.S. dollars. Appendix

A describes the data, factor construction, and sample choices in detail.


   With these uniform factor definitions and portfolio construction rules, we replicate the

22 global factor premiums documented in the literature for the period 1981 to 2011. Note

that for uniformity this now also includes testing return seasonality for bonds and

currencies, which was not done in the original publication.


                                 INSERT TABLE II HERE




                                              11



                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
    The results of the replication are displayed in Table II. We find that the Sharpe ratios

are marginally lower than in the original studies, averaging to 0.41, with 12 of the 24

factor premiums being significant at the conventional 5% level. The seasonal strategy

applied to bond and currency markets, which was not reported in the original paper, is

not significant during the period 1981 to 2011. Further, 8 of the global factor premiums

are significant using a t-value of 3.00 as cut-off.


    One could argue that another way to limit sensitivity to p-hacking is to combine

information across asset classes. An objection against such a multi-asset aggregation of

evidence is that the factor premiums tend to be lowly correlated across asset classes, as

we will show in Section IV. Nevertheless, we also construct equal-volatility-weighted

global factor portfolios per asset class and across asset classes (‘Multi Asset’) by targeting

each market, then asset class portfolio, and then Multi Asset portfolio at a 10% ex-ante

annual volatility and applying equal-weighting. Following this procedure, the Sharpe

ratios of the six multi-asset combinations vary between 0.39 and 1.15, and the t-values

are above two for each factor. The proposed threshold t-value of three is achieved by four

out of six.



                         C. Statistically accounting for p-hacking

    In this subsection, we report traditional p-values (which do not correct for multiple

hypotheses testing bias), Bayesianized p-values advocated by Harvey (2017), and the

‘break-even’ prior odds. The critique on frequentist p-values is that they indicate how

likely it is to observe the data under the assumption that the null hypothesis is true.

However, we are typically more interested in knowing the probability that the null

hypothesis is true given that we observed the data. This question can be answered by a

Bayesian approach. However, a full-blown Bayesian analysis, in which we specify priors

on all possible hypotheses and calculate posterior probabilities given the observed data


                                              12



                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
for inference, is challenging. A sensible alternative is to use the Minimum Bayes Factor

(MBF; Edwards, Lindman, and Savage, 1963). The Bayes Factor connects the prior odds

(before having seen the data) with the posterior odds (after having seen the data). The

MBF gives maximum advantage to the alternative hypothesis, and therefore represents

the maximum amount the data can move the posterior odds away from the prior odds.

The MBF is global in the sense that it accepts all possible alternative hypotheses as

potential candidates. If we are prepared to assume that the prior probabilities of

alternatives should be symmetrical and descending (SD) around the null hypothesis,

which seems to be a reasonable assumption for many applications in finance, we obtain

an SD-MBF (Bayarri and Berger 1998)11, defined as:



                               SD-MBF = -exp(1) x p-value x ln(p-value)                                      (1)


    Consequently, we can transform the frequentist p-value to a Bayesian p-value using

a level of prior odds of the null being true relative to an alternative:



              Bayesian p-value = SD-MBF x prior odds / (1+SD-MBF x prior odds)                               (2)


For example, for a situation in which the null and alternative are equally likely (i.e. even

prior odds), the frequentist p-value of 5% is transformed into a Bayesian p-value of 29%.

When the alternative is a ‘long shot’ with prior odds 99-to-1, the frequentist p-value of 5%

will be Bayesian to 98%. In other words, if we are skeptical about the alternative, more

convincing data is required to change our minds than if the alternative is more easily

conceivable.12



11 The MBF is exp(-Z2/2) for a normal approximated z-score Z. This means that for a frequentist p-value of 5%

the MBF equals 0.15, while this is 0.41 for the SD-MBF. The latter, which we use throughout our paper, is
clearly more conservative as it leads to higher Bayesian p-values.
12 As also stressed by Harvey (2017), the Bayes factor we employ is in principle a first hurdle to filter effects

that are highly unlikely to be true. As a next step one could argue that a more conservative Bayes factor is
needed, or even an explicit alternative. However, Bayarri, Benjamin, Berger, and Sellke (2016) show that the
SD-MBF is generally very close to the full Bayes factor when p-values are low (as in our case).

                                                      13



                    Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
       The difficulty in the Bayesian approach is the assumption on the level of prior odds.

This choice is quite subjective, while it typically has a material impact on the posterior p-

value. As an alternative, we can think in terms of the ‘break-even’ prior odds, or that level

of prior odds at which the Bayesian p-value equals the chosen significance level α. When

we rewrite the equation above, we obtain the break-even prior odds as a function of α and

the frequentist p-value (represented by the SD-MBF):



                       Break-even prior odds = α / ((1 – α) * SD-MBF)                      (3)


Suppose we found a frequentist p-value of 0.1%, and want the α to be 5%, this implies a

break-even prior odds ratio of 2.8:1. If we are a priori more skeptical about the alternative

than this, the frequentist p-value of 0.1% (t-statistic of 3.3) do not provide enough evidence

to change our minds.


                                INSERT TABLE III HERE


   Table III shows the results of applying these Bayesian concepts to our replication

exercise. For each global return factor, we report the frequentist p-values and the

Bayesian p-values with a prior odds ratio of 4:1; prior odds classified by Harvey (2017) as

‘perhaps’ (see also Figure 1 for the results of both the original and replication study). We

find that only 25% (six) of the 24 factor premiums, and 50% (three) of their six multi-asset

combinations have Bayesian p-values below 5%. Next, turning to the break-even odds, we

find (obviously) the same number of global return factors to have prior odds above 4:1.

Turning to more conservative prior odds, we find that only in three out of 24 cases the

break-even odds exceed 5, while only two exceed 99 – the prior odds labelled as a ‘long

shot’ by Harvey (2017). These results imply that one does not need to be very skeptical to

disregard the empirical evidence. This leaves us to conclude that further analysis is




                                             14



                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
warranted using new and independent data for these factor premiums, a challenge we

pick up next.




                        III. Global return factors: evidence since 1800

    Next, we examine the global return factors using a novel, deep and largely unexplored

historical sample that was not used for their original discovery. Using freshly uncovered

historical data for cross-validation is one of the protocols advocated by Arnott, Harvey,

and Markowitz (2018) to avoid the dangers of data mining.



                                   A. Historical database construction

    We have compiled our data from several sources in order to obtain a reliable and

historically extensive dataset. Our sample covers 217 years of data from 31 December

1799 through 31 December 2016. We obtain the most recent historical data on financial

market prices and macroeconomic series from Bloomberg, Datastream and the OECD

website, and splice these before inception with data from (in order of preference): Global

Financial Data, the Dimson, Staunton and Marsh Database, the Jordà-Schularick-Taylor

Macrohistory Database13, and/or Jeremy Siegel's website.14 Our dataset construction for

each asset and measure is described in more detail in Appendix A. Table A.1 in the

appendix summarizes the markets included in our sample, the start dates of their excess

return series, and the start dates of the value and carry factor measures per market.


                                      INSERT FIGURE 2 HERE



      Figure 2 shows that our sample consists of 13 global financial markets in 1800: 2

equity markets (U.S., U.K.), 3 bond markets (U.S., U.K., France), 5 commodities (Wheat,



13 http://macrohistory.net/. See Jordà, Schularick and Taylor (2017) for more information.
14 http://www.jeremysiegel.com/.



                                                     15



                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
Cotton, Cocoa, Copper, Silver), and 3 currencies (GBP/USD, FRF/USD, USD/USD). In

1822 the sample increases to 18, and then gradually further over time, with several

markets entering between 1860 and 1870 to increase the sample size to 36. At the start

of World War I in 1914 there are 50 global assets. In 1974, the number of assets has

increased to 66, and in 1999 the sample decreases from its maximum of 68 to 63, because

of the introduction of the euro currency.15

      Due to problems with exceptionally high levels of data uncertainty, we next exclude

hyperinflation episodes from our sample by excluding assets from countries with ex-ante

levels of monthly inflation over 50 percent. This definition follows Cagan (1956) and is

widely accepted. We only start investing 12-months after the hyperinflation period has

ended, as this is real-time available information. This definition of hyperinflation affects

Germany during the 1920-1926 period; France in 1920-1921; France, Italy, and Japan

during the post-World War II years (1946-1949/1950 and 1943-1948 for Italy); and South

Korea in 1950-1956. Furthermore, in order to filter for liquidity and data historically

available at a non-monthly frequency, we add a ‘zero return screen’, as assets with lower

liquidity are more likely to have zero-returns. Lesmond, Ogden, and Trzcinka (1999) in

essence show that the number of periods with zero-returns is an efficient proxy for

liquidity. We include an asset at each point in time when over the past 12 months at most

one month displayed a zero spot price movement or missing price. This screen has limited

impact on our results, as shown in the robustness section.

      In this study, we choose to focus on the main markets in each asset class based on

what we can assess today, thereby ignoring the smaller markets. Most of these smaller

markets were generally of lesser importance for investors, and hence this choice prevents

us from finding factor premiums that would have been of small importance economically.


15 Note that the limited number of assets per asset class in roughly the first 50 years of our sample period

makes it more difficult to detect the existence of global return factors. Even though the average returns need
not necessarily be affected, the variation around the average is probably higher due to limited diversification
benefits in the portfolios.

                                                     16



                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
Nevertheless, some of these markets might have been more relevant historically, possibly

creating a survivorship bias as described in Brown, Goetzmann, and Ross (1995). For

example, Argentina is commonly believed to have been an economy of comparable size to

large European markets at the beginning of the 1900s, while our data sources do not cover

equity or bond markets in Argentina around the 1900s and we do not include this market

in our sample. That said, Dimson, Marsh, and Staunton (2008) claim that several Latin

American countries combined (including Argentina) constituted less than 1.5% of the

equity market capitalization during the 1900s. Moreover, Goetzmann and Kim (2018)

analyze the equity indices in Global Financial Data for survivorship bias in a setting that

is arguably more exposed to survivorship bias (i.e. crashes and rebounds) and show that

this is at best a minor concern. Further, our results are robust across ten-year subperiods

(including the recent subperiods), which seems hard to reconcile with survivorship bias.

     Even though we (and the data vendors) have paid close attention to data quality, it

is hard to assess to what extent these worries exactly apply, especially for data further

back in history. In general, we expect that poor data quality would be random and

therefore increase noise in the data, biasing our results towards the null hypothesis that

the various global return factors do not exist. In addition to this qualitative argument, we

examine robustness towards trimming extremely positive returns, applying an additional

monthly lag between signal measurement and factor strategy implementation, and report

results for rolling 10-year periods. These checks should mitigate concerns about the

quality of our data.



                            B. Global return factors since 1800


    The results of each global return factor, in terms of Sharpe ratios, over the ‘new’

period (1800-1980 and 2012-2016) are displayed in Panel A of Table IV.




                                             17



                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
                                     INSERT TABLE IV HERE



    First and foremost, we find a strong presence of most global return factors. In terms

of economic significance, we find an average Sharpe ratio of 0.41 and in terms of statistical

significance we find that 19 of the 24 t-values are above 3.0. Remarkably, unlike the

results of most out-of-sample studies (see for example Linnainmaa and Roberts, 2018), we

generally find very limited out-of-sample decay of the global return factors. In fact, the

average Sharpe ratio of our replication exercise is also 0.41.

    Panel B of Table IV exploits the full power of our sample by studying the full sample

results. In general, results are stronger as measured by t-values because of the additional

three decades with positive (although not always statistically significant) returns. Over

both the new sample and the full sample, time-series momentum, carry, and seasonality

are generally the strongest. For each of the four asset classes, these three factors have

Sharpe ratios above 0.20 and t-values well above three (except for commodity carry in the

new sample for which we only have data since 1968, yet over this relatively short period

until 1980 the t-value is still 2.52). Return seasonality in government bonds and

currencies are strong factor premiums and are an extension of the empirical asset pricing

literature. For momentum and value we find statistically and economically significant

positive returns for three out of four asset classes. Momentum for commodities and value

for currencies is weak with t-values in the new (full) sample of -0.99 (0.71) and 0.36 (1.09),

respectively.16 The results for BAB reveal that the effect is strongly present for equity

indices, but not significant for other asset classes.17



16 We observe that our new sample for commodity momentum is based on spot returns, while the literature

typically examines commodity futures returns instead.
17 That said, our results for the BAB factor are comparable for all asset classes to Frazzini and Pedersen

(2014) over the replication sample period. Table II reveals that, over the 1980-2011 period, BAB has an
annualized Sharpe ratio of 0.37 for equities, 0.36 for country bonds, 0.01 for commodities and 0.13 for
currencies. This compares to 0.51, 0.14, 0.11, and 0.22, respectively, documented in Frazzini and Pedersen
(2014). Furthermore, Frazzini and Pedersen (2014) find substantially stronger results for BAB applied to
bonds across the curve within a single country. In a separate U.S. bond sample covering many maturities they

                                                    18



                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
                                      INSERT TABLE V HERE



        Table V shows the results of applying the Bayesian concepts to the new sample

(Panel A) and the full sample (Panel B). In Table III we report for each global return factor

the frequentist p-values, the Bayesian p-values with a prior odds ratio of 4:1, and the

break-even prior odds that lead to a posterior probability of 5% for the null hypothesis.

Over the full sample period (i.e. utilizing the full statistical power of our data) we find

that 18 of the 24 global return factors have Bayesian p-values below 5%. In addition, the

prior odds ratio generally needs to be above 99-to-1. This is even more true for the multi-

asset combinations, for which the prior odds ratios are all above 9,999 to 1, except for

BAB, for which we only find positive empirical evidence in the equity indices. These

results imply that one needs to be extremely skeptical in order not to reject the null

hypothesis that global factor returns are zero.

        At this point, the following important aspect should be noted: The main purpose of

this paper is to provide more robust and rigorous long-term evidence of the historical

presence of global return factors, utilizing their most simple or basic definitions as put

forward in influential papers analyzing recent samples. In this light, this study does not

examine smarter and possibly better definitions, nor aspects linked to (limits to) arbitrage

and tradability (such as transaction costs, turnover, legal controls, capital mobility, etc.).

Although there are indications that some of the global return factors were exploited

historically (e.g. Jobst, 2009), and their trading was feasible at limited transaction costs

(e.g. Koudijs, 2016), we leave these aspects for future research. Instead, we have

documented the consistent, robust existence of most global return factors over 217 years

of data, which includes more than 160 years of pre-sample data.


find a Sharpe ratio of 0.81. Since bond data of various maturities is generally lacking deep history we have
left the BAB factor in country bond markets outside the scope of this study.

                                                    19



                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
                                  C. Robustness analyses

   An additional manner to mitigate the influence of p-hacking is to examine the

robustness of the global return factors to common degrees of freedom for the researcher

(e.g., sample periods, factor construction and other methodological choices). We start our

robustness analyses with subperiod results. To reduce the degrees of freedom (that might

lead to picking convenient subperiods), we consider all 10-year rolling subperiods, and

report the frequency of positive Sharpe ratios in Table VI. The global return factors with

significant full sample Sharpe ratios display consistent premiums over time, with

frequencies typically above 80%. Further, with the exception of BAB, the multi-asset

combinations have a positive Sharpe ratio in at least 90% of the rolling 10-year periods

between 1800 and 2016. This consistency of performance over time further strengthens

our empirical evidence for the existence of most of the global return factors we examine.


                                INSERT TABLE VI HERE



                               INSERT TABLE VII HERE


   Next, Table VII considers methodological variations relative to our ‘baseline

strategies’ examined so far. We focus on the full sample results, but we have verified that

results are similar for the new sample period (see Table B.1 in Appendix B for robustness

in the replication sample). First, we remove the zero-return liquidity screen, as this is not

commonly employed in the original studies underlying this paper. Overall, removing this

screen tends to increase the Sharpe ratios, most notably for value in currencies, which

now becomes economically strong (0.51) and significant. Second, instead of using the

portfolio weights that depend on the cross-sectional ranking, we take equally-weighted

long and short positions in the top and bottom tercile within each asset class (the portfolio


                                             20



                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
construction choice employed by Keloharju, Linnainmaa, and Nyberg, 2016). Third, we do

not scale the positions using past volatility or beta (in the case of BAB), but rather take

simple equal notional positions in each asset. This means that more weight is given to the

riskiest assets within an asset class. Fourth, we consider robustness to signals lagging by

one month before investing. This lowers the Sharpe ratio for each factor except value, but

the economic and statistical magnitude of the reduction is limited for each factor except

seasonality. By construction, this factor is linked to a monthly seasonal effect, and

delaying the signal by a month actually reduces the average return to indistinguishable

from zero. Fifth, instead of a monthly rebalancing of the factor portfolios we consider a

quarterly rebalancing frequency. Note that here we define seasonality over quarterly

instead of monthly periods. Sixth, we test robustness with respect to outliers by trimming

extreme returns (which might be especially difficult to harvest). Note that this will also

provide more robustness to potential data errors. More specifically, we trim all strategy

returns before any position sizing in a single market to a maximum of 50%. To summarize

the information in the robustness checks we report the average Sharpe ratio and the

fraction of settings that yield a significant Sharpe ratio in the final two columns of Table

VII. Overall, the significant results reported so far are robust with regard to the above

variations, with average Sharpe ratios close to the baseline results and at least five of the

seven variations yielding significant Sharpe ratios.




                IV. Economic explanations of the global return factors

   We have documented robust evidence for the presence of global factor premiums using

replication and out-of-sample testing and utilizing various methods that account for p-

hacking. In this Section, we turn to insights into potential explanations of these global

factor premiums. In line with, amongst others, Koijen et al.(2018) and Keloharju,

Linnainmaa, and Nyberg (2016), we consider common variation, and explanations related


                                             21



                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
to market risk, downside risk, and macroeconomic risks.18 To this end, we exploit the

power of our full sample period ranging from 1800 to 2016. The advantage of this long-

term data series is that it is easier to identify explanations that relate to relatively

infrequent observations such as downside or macroeconomic risks.



                               A. Market risk and common variation

      The Sharpe ratios for the factors that we have shown in the previous section measure

return per unit of risk, but do not account for exposures to traditional asset classes. If the

factor returns can be explained by correlation to traditional global markets, they are

redundant, even if they have an economically significant Sharpe ratio. In order to adjust

for these market exposures, we start by displaying the Jensen’s alphas for each of the

factor-asset class combinations, where we adjust the factor return series for exposures to

market risks, in Table 8, Panel A. The results from these alphas are very comparable to

those based on Sharpe ratios. The alphas are typically about 10 times larger than the

Sharpe ratio, which one would expect if there is no correlation with global markets, as the

factor returns are scaled to an (ex-post) volatility of 10% per annum. These results

indicate that none of the factor strategies are strongly correlated to global asset class

risks.

      We continue in a next step to show the average pairwise monthly return correlations.

These can be found in Panel B of Table 8. The average correlation of each factor across

asset classes is close to zero, ranging from -0.01 (value) to 0.05 (trend). A similar picture

emerges for the average correlation for factors within an asset class, with values ranging

from 0.02 (commodities) to 0.10 (currencies). Furthermore, most individual correlation

coefficients between the multi-asset factor series and between each factor-asset class



18 Another explanation offered for many of the global return factors is market or funding liquidity risk (see

amongst others Asness, Moskowitz and Pedersen, 2013, and Koijen et al., 2018). Due to the limited
availability of deep historical data on the measures used in these studies we do not examine these
explanations in this paper.

                                                     22



                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
series are also close to zero, as shown in Appendix Table B.2 (containing the entire

correlation matrix). From this perspective, most of the 24 global return factors are unique

drivers of return, that share little common variation. The main exceptions are time-series

and cross-sectional momentum that generally correlate positively, and both momentum

factors and value correlate negatively.

      To show the added value of each of the factors, we regress its monthly time-series on

the 23 other return series (where we impute missing values with the average in order to

exploit the full sample). The intercept of this regression can be interpreted as an

expansion of the mean-variance efficient frontier with respect to the other factors (see De

Roon and Nijman, 2001), and is hence a test of the unique added value of each of the 24

global return factors. All series are scaled to an ex-post volatility of 10% for interpretation

purposes. Table VIII, Panel C shows the (annualized) intercepts from the spanning

regressions.

      In line with the above results, most intercepts are significantly positive. The main

exception is that the trend factors subsume the momentum factors. The intercepts on the

cross-sectional momentum are negative or statistically indistinguishable from zero (cross-

sectional momentum in equity indices is the exception at 10% significance), while the

intercepts on the trend factors are all significantly positive. These results are similar to

the empirical results presented by Moskowitz, Ooi, and Pedersen (2012) over the period

1985 to 2009. In (unreported) results we have verified the robustness of this finding over

subperiods. This leaves us to conclude that trend encompasses momentum. Furthermore,

seasonality in currencies and BAB in equities are spanned by the other global return

factors, while BAB in bonds has a significantly positive intercept at the 10% significance

level. Seasonality in other asset classes (including bonds) remains economically and

statistically significantly positive.19


19 These results suggest long positions to most of the global return factors in optimal asset allocations. To

check this, we have evaluated optimal long-only mean-variance asset allocations to traditional asset classes

                                                     23



                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
                                    INSERT TABLE VIII HERE


                                            B. Downside risk

    A large and growing literature considers whether various return anomalies

compensate investors for downside or crash risk. For example, Doskov and Swinkels

(2015) show that the currency carry factor is exposed to crash risk, and Koijen et al. (2018)

show that downside risk captures a part of the carry return in fixed income and

commodity markets. In this subsection, we consider downside risk explanations via the

Downside Risk CAPM (DR CAPM) of Bawa and Lindenberg (1977). When the DR CAPM

holds, assets with higher downside betas should have higher expected returns. Another

way to interpret downside risk is as a conditional risk factor based on falling markets,

also referred to as downstate beta.


    Recently, Lettau, Maggiori and Weber (2014) have used the DR CAPM model and find

that the carry factor has higher downside beta compared to the regular beta. Degrees of

freedom in testing downside beta are the thresholds at which downside returns start to

count, and the choice of benchmark return. Typical choices are zero, or lower thresholds

deeper into the left tail of the return distribution, with threshold and equity market as

benchmark. Furthermore, a common challenge when estimating downside risk exposures

and premiums is the general reduction in the number of observations in the left tail (Post

and Van Vliet, 2006). Especially market crashes do not happen very often. For example,

Lettau, Maggiori and Weber (2014) use a threshold of -1 standard deviation of the equity

market return, which results in 55 monthly observations out of 435 in their 1974-2010

sample (87% of all observations are excluded). In our 217-year sample, we have many



and the multi-asset combinations of the global return factors. Our findings reveal high allocation weights to
each of the Multi Asset factors except cross-sectional momentum and BAB. To save space, we do not report
these results separately.

                                                     24



                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
more such events, allowing us to rigorously examine the hypothesis that downside risk

can explain the premiums on the global return factors. For example, we have 43 years of

equity bear markets and 218 downside market states in the case of a threshold of -1

standard deviation of the equity market return. This relatively large number of

observations also enables us to study downside risk even further into the left tail of the

distribution.


                                INSERT TABLE IX HERE


                                INSERT FIGURE 3 HERE



   We apply both the CAPM and the DR CAPM using the settings used in Lettau,

Maggiori and Weber (2014). Table IX summarizes the results in terms of CAPM alphas

and betas, as well as the DR CAPM alphas and betas. Table IX is sorted according to their

downside equity market betas, and significant alpha numbers are displayed in bold.

Figure 3 depicts the excess return versus beta (right plot) or downside beta (left plot) of

each global return factor. Overall, the average downside beta is very similar to the regular

beta, with differences not larger than 0.10. Focusing on individual global return factors,

carry has the highest increase in downside beta, in line with the results of Koijen et al.

(2018) and Lettau, Maggiori and Weber (2014). Still, downside risk explains at best a

small fraction of carry profits, with for example a downside beta - regular beta difference

of 0.06 for the carry multi-asset combination, reducing its alpha by a marginal 0.22

percent to 9.73. In Appendix B, Table B.3 we further show the sensitivity of the downside

beta results to using a zero-return cutoff or using equity crash betas (i.e. with the

threshold deeper in the left tail). Moreover, Baltussen, Post and Van Vliet (2012) show

that the stock-level value premium is exposed to downside risk in both equity and bond

markets. Consequently, we also consider conditioning on bond market movements in



                                             25



                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
Table B.3. Overall, these results are similar to the above, with downside risk explaining

at best a part of the global factor returns, most notably carry. Next, we estimate the risk

premiums attached to beta or downside beta using the Fama and MacBeth (1973)

approach, and find that the price of beta as priced in the cross-section of global return

factors is of the wrong sign (-0.06) and insignificant (t-value = -0.39), as also evident from

the flat line in Figure 3. When beta is replaced by downside beta in the Fama and MacBeth

regressions we find an insignificant cross-sectional risk premium of 0.05 percent (t-value

= 0.26). Moreover, instead of estimating the risk premium, we can infer it from the data

as the time-series average equity premium (3.05 percent). Using this risk premium, the

downside beta required to bring the average global factor return (4.11 percent) to zero

would be above 1.30. This is a very high downside beta not observed for any of the factors

in the full sample (for example, the maximum tail beta show in Appendix B is below 0.3).

Moreover, we also do not observe such large downside betas for any of the 24 global return

factors when considering any 10-year sample period (unreported for the sake of brevity).

Based on these long-run sample results we conclude that downside market risk does not

materially explain the global factor premiums.



                               C. Bad states and macroeconomic risk

    Risk-based explanations of asset pricing anomalies argue for time-variation in

expected returns related to time variation in its risk or risk premium, aspects that can be

expected to relate to macroeconomic or market conditions (Chen, Roll, and Ross, 1986,

Fama and French, 1989, Ferson and Harvey, 1991).20 A major advantage of our extended

sample (resulting from over 200 years of data) is the presence of many observations within



20 For example, Merton’s (1973) Intertemporal Capital Asset Pricing Model stipulates that in a risk-averse

economy any variable that affects the set of future investment opportunities or the level of consumption earns
a risk premium. Macroeconomic variables should be high up on the list of candidates, since they impact the
cash flows of many agents in the real economy simultaneously, typically impact the real investment
opportunities available (for example via government stimulus) and covary with risk appetite in the markets.
Moreover, papers by, amongst others, Fama and French (1989) and Ferson and Harvey (1991) argue that
expected business conditions are fundamental drivers of time variation in expected risk premiums.

                                                     26



                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
and across various economic and market regimes (e.g., recessions and crisis episodes). A

sample based on the past decades might be biased, given that they were quite exceptional

(no major wars, growing global prosperity and only a few large recessions or periods of

social unrest), which severely limits the number of ‘bad states’. Our extensive multi-

century sample includes many bear markets (43 years) and recessions (74 years). It

therefore allows us to examine and describe in greater depth to what extent the global

return factors can be explained with macroeconomic risk.

    Many approaches have been used in the literature to examine sensitivity to, and

pricing of macroeconomic risks. Following Griffin, Ji and Martin (2003) and Keloharju,

Linnainmaa, and Nyberg (2016), we comprehensively examine macroeconomic risk

explanations of the global return factors by taking three approaches. First, we divide

periods into ‘good’ and ‘bad’ states and examine the pricing of global return factors over

each. Second, we examine macroeconomic risk exposures and pricing using an

unconditional approach, in the spirit of Chen, Roll and Ross (1986). Third, we examine

time variation in global factor returns related to macroeconomic variables using a

dynamic pricing approach, in the spirit of Chordia and Shivakumar (2002).

    To examine the pricing of global return factors over good and bad states, we construct

indicators of each market state and compute contemporaneous average annual factor

returns for each state, as well as the return difference between the states. The market

states, or regimes, that we examine are constructed per calendar year and are:

•   Recession versus expansionary periods, where we mark calendar years as recessionary

    when at least six months of a calendar year are in a recession, and as expansionary

    otherwise. Our sample has 74 recession and 143 expansion years.

•   Global crisis versus non-crisis periods, where we mark calendar years as ‘Crisis’ (‘Non-

    crisis)’ when the Rogoff and Reinhart Banking Currency Default Inflation (BCDI)

    indicator is above (below) 50. Our sample has 52 (165) crisis (non-crisis) years.


                                             27



                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
•   Equity bull versus bear market periods, since one could argue that the equity markets

    provide a forward-looking assessment of macroeconomic conditions. We mark calendar

    years as a bull (bear) market when the calendar year global equity return series were

    positive (negative). Our sample has 43 (174) bear (bull) market years.



                                       INSERT TABLE X HERE



                                       INSERT TABLE XI HERE



        The results are summarized in Table X. If the global return factors are driven by

macroeconomic risks one would expect their returns to be especially strong in bad states.

Overall, most global return factors do not display stronger returns during bad states (i.e.

recessions, crises and turbulence). The most notable exception is value in equities during

recession periods or bear markets, which also shows insignificant returns during

expansion (but not bull markets). But these findings do not persist in crisis periods. The

last row of Table X examines the common effects of macroeconomic states on all global

return factors jointly, using a panel regression (with index-fixed effects and date-corrected

standard errors). The results confirm significant global factor returns across all states,

and only reveal significant variation across states for equity bear versus bull markets.21


21 In addition, we have tested the impact of investor sentiment, as in Keloharju, Linnainmaa, and Nyberg

(2016). Many studies argue that the significant presence of sentiment-driven investors can cause persistent
mispricing and that profits on various return anomalies should be higher following high periods of sentiment
if they are a reflection of mispricing (Baker and Wurgler, 2006, Stambaugh, Yu, and Yuan, 2012). We explore
such an explanation by reconstructing the text-based market-wide pessimism measure of Garcia (2013) on a
daily basis and extend it to span the 1899–2014 period (before 1899 data coverage is sparse). Subsequently,
we average the word measures over each month, and divide our sample high and low sentiment months. In
the spirit of Baker and Wurgler (2006) and Keloharju, Linnainmaa, and Nyberg (2016), we define high
sentiment months as those in which the value of the market-wide pessimism index for the previous month is
below the index’s median value for the sample period. The low sentiment months are those that follow above-
median pessimism index values. Our findings reveal that global return factors are generally significantly
weaker in low sentiment states, and stronger in high sentiment states (but significantly positive in both), in
line with the results of amongst other Stambaugh, Yu, and Yuan (2012), who find higher returns on stock-
level return anomalies after periods of high sentiment. More specifically, we find that 14 out of 24 coefficients
indicate stronger returns after high sentiment months (5 out of 6 for the multi-asset combinations), an effect
that is strong and significant in the panel regression.

                                                      28



                    Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
    Our second analysis examines exposures to, and unconditional pricing of,

macroeconomic factors. To this end, we construct the most widely used Chen, Roll and

Ross (1986) factors – log changes in industrial production (MP; as in Chen et al. led by 1

month), term spread (UTS), changes in expected inflation (DEI), and unexpected inflation

(UI) – for our global sample using monthly data.22 We regress the time series of each global

return factor on these macroeconomic variables and obtain coefficients and intercepts.

Our sample starts in February 1869 due to the availability of deep historical inflation

data. Table XI summarizes the results. If global return factors are driven by

macroeconomic risk, then they should exhibit significant sensitivity to the factors

proposed by Chen, Roll and Ross (1986). Our findings reveal that the global

macroeconomic variables are generally not significantly related to global factor returns or

subject to the wrong sign, with a couple of noteworthy exceptions. Value tends to load

negatively on IP and UTS; carry and seasonality tend to load positively on IP but

negatively on UTS and in the case of seasonality, also negatively on DEI. BAB tends to

load positively on UTS. Value in equities has insignificant exposure to all macroeconomic

factors. Furthermore, all significant global return factors of Section III have intercepts

that are highly significant and are of similar magnitude to the raw returns over this

sample (reported in the column “Actual”). These results suggest that macroeconomic risks

have very limited explanatory power for the global return factors.

    Next, to examine risk premiums attached to each macroeconomic factor and to what

extent they can explain the global return factors, we apply the Fama and MacBeth (1973)

technique on a monthly frequency with our global return factors as test assets. We

combine the premiums with the estimated loadings to decompose the returns on the global



22 More specifically, we construct these measures for the U.S., U.K., Germany, France and Japan (more details

on the data can be found in Appendix A), and average these for a global measure. We have verified that our
results are robust if U.S.-specific measures are used instead. Further, Chen, Roll and Ross (1986) show that
these macroeconomic variables and the default premium are priced risk factors using the Fama and MacBeth
(1973) regression on the cross-section of U.S. size portfolios. Akin to Griffin, Ji and Martin (2003), we omit
the default premium, as its historical data availability is limited, especially outside the United States.

                                                     29



                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
return factors into predicted and unexplained components. If the Chen, Roll and Ross

factors suffice for explaining global return factors, then the difference between the actual

and predicted returns (or unexplained) should not be significantly different from zero. The

empirical results show that several global return factors have significant expected

macroeconomic premiums, but that the unexplained return is generally more substantial

and highly significant. The main exception is seasonality, especially in equity indices,

where the unexplained return turns significantly negative.23 However, this result

originates from negative expected loadings combined with negative estimated risk

premiums; the risk premiums (unreported) are either insignificant (in the case of IP and

UI) or of the wrong sign (negative; UTS, DEI). When imposing risk premiums to be

positive (unreported) this result disappears.

    Our third analysis examines time variation in global factor returns related to

macroeconomic variables. To this end we run the above time series regressions using a

rolling 60-month window (as in Chordia and Shivakumar, 2002, and Griffin, Ji and

Martin, 2003). We combine the estimated loadings with a realization on the

macroeconomic variables to obtain one-step-ahead forecasts of returns, and compare the

average expected and actual returns. The results, reported in the last two columns of

Table XI, reveal at best a limited ability of the macroeconomic variables to predict global

return factors, with most predicted returns being of the wrong sign (like seasonality in

equities) or not significantly different from zero. In summary, our tests reveal very limited

evidence of a link between macroeconomic risk and global return factors.




23 Keloharju, Linnainmaa and Nyberg (2018) show that return seasonality in stocks is balanced by seasonal reversals:

The seasonalities and seasonal reversals add up to zero over the calendar year. Their evidence suggests that return
seasonalities are likely due to temporary mispricing.

                                                           30



                     Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
                                       V. Conclusion
     We examine global factor premiums from three dimensions. First, we replicate

existing studies to global factor premiums with a uniform factor construction methodology

and sample period (thus limiting the degrees of freedom for each individual factor). Our

results are generally quite similar to the published results, but methods to account for p-

hacking reveal that more analyses is needed to draw conclusions on the existence of the

majority of factor premiums. We introduce the Bayesian concept of break-even odds, the

prior odds at which the Bayesian p-value would equal the confidence level chosen, which

show that on average relatively low prior odds are needed to question the replication

sample evidence on the global factor premiums.

     Second, we build a wide and deep sample on the global return factors, covering more

than 200 years of data across the major international asset classes. The new sample

evidence reveals that the large majority of global factor premiums are convincingly

present from economic, statistical, and p-hacking perspectives. Sharpe ratios are on

average around 0.4 and generally persistent over time and factor construction settings.

Further, most t-statistics well exceed 3, and break-even prior odds are generally above

9,999-to-1. Remarkably, the global return factors generally have close to zero decay in

performance between the replication sample and out-of-sample periods. Factor premiums

that are weak in the original studies are also weak in the extended sample period.

     Third, we examine economic explanations for the global factor premiums. In general,

the factors do not span each other, except for trend crowding out momentum. The global

factor premiums are at best marginally explained by downside risk explanations.

Furthermore, they are consistently present across various macroeconomic states, nor can

be explained by macroeconomic risk models. Consequently, our results seem hard to

reconcile with explanations based on risk, although we are cautious on such an

interpretation because risk exposures and especially risk premiums are not directly



                                             31



                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
observable. Instead, we interpret our findings as providing no positive evidence of a

relationship between return factors and risk, nor on a unified explanation for the global

return factors. Consequently, explanations of the documented global return factors are an

important topic for future research.

     Our results have strong implications for research in asset pricing. The literature on

asset pricing theory and return predictability has often evolved separately by asset class

or factor. Most studies focus on a single asset class, market or factor at a time, ignoring

the wide presence of a group of return factors across asset classes. Our findings reveal

that a theory that aims to model variation in expected returns should consider multiple

asset classes and global return factors simultaneously. Furthermore, the documented

return factors are important controls for empirical studies into new asset pricing factors.

All in all, our study shows a strong, robust and persistent presence of economically

important global factor premiums.




                                             32



                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
                                         References
Abuaf, N., & Jorion, P. (1990). Purchasing power parity in the long run. Journal of
Finance, 45(1), 157-174.

Arnott, R., Harvey, C., and Markowitz, H. (2018) A Backtesting Protocol in the Era of
Machine Learning, Journal of Financial Data Science, forthcoming.

Asness, C.S., Moskowitz, T.J. and Pedersen, L.H. (2013). Value and momentum
everywhere, Journal of Finance, 68(3), 929-985.

Baker, M., & Wurgler, J. (2006). Investor sentiment and the cross-section of stock returns.
Journal of Finance 61, 1645–1680.

Baltussen, G., Z. Da, & Van Bekkum, S. (2018). Indexing and Stock Market Serial
Dependence around the World. Journal of Financial Economics, forthcoming.

Baltussen, G., Post, G.T. & Van Vliet, P. (2012). Downside Risk Aversion, Fixed-Income
Exposure, and the Value Premium Puzzle. Journal of Banking and Finance, 36(12), 3382-
3398.

Barroso, P., & Santa-Clara, P. (2015). Beyond the carry trade: Optimal currency
portfolios. Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 50(5), 1037-1056.

Bayarri, M. J., Benjamin, D., Berger, J., & Sellke, T. (2016). Rejection odds and rejection
ratios: A proposal for statistical practice in testing hypotheses, Journal of Mathematical
Psychology 72, 90-103.

Bayarri, M.J., & Berger, J.O. (1998). Quantifying surprise in the data and model
verification, in J.M. Bernardo, J.O. Berger, A.P. David, and A.F.M. Smith, eds: Bayesian
Statistics 6, Oxford University Press: Oxford, U.K.

Bawa, V. S., & Lindenberg, E. B. (1977). Capital market equilibrium in a mean-lower
partial moment framework. Journal of Financial Economics, 5(2), 189-200.

Begley, C. G., & Ellis, L. M. (2012). Raise standards for preclinical cancer research.
Nature 483, 531–533.

Benjamin, D., Berger, J., Johannesson, M., Nosek, B., Wagenmakers, E., Berk, R., Bollen,
K., Brembs, B., Brown, L., Camerer, C., Cesarini, D., Chambers, C., Clyde, M., Cook, T.,
De Boeck, P., Dienes, Z., Dreber, A., Easwaran, K., Efferson, C., Fehr, E., Fidler, F., Field,
A., Forster, M., George, E., Gonzalez, R., Goodman, S., Green, E., Green, D., Greenwald,
A., Hadfield, J., Hedges, L., Held, L., Ho, T., Hoijtink, H., Hruschka, D., Imai, K., Imbens,
G., Ioannidis, J., Jeon, M., Jones, J., Kirchler, M., Laibson, D., List, J., Little, R., Lupia,
A., Machery, E., Maxwell, S., McCarthy, M., Moore, D., Morgan, S., Munafó, M.,
Nakagawa, S., Nyhan, B., Parker, T., Pericchi, L., Perugini, M., Rouder, J., Rousseau, J.,
Savalei, V., Schönbrodt, F., Sellke, T., Sinclair, B., Tingley, D., Van Zandt, T., Vazire, S.,
Watts, D., Winship, C., Wolpert, R., Xie, Y., Young, C., Zinman, J., & Johnson, V. (2018).
Redefine statistical significance. Nature Human Behaviour 2, 6-10.

Blitz, D. C., & van Vliet, P. (2007). The Volatility Effect. Journal of Portfolio Management,
34(1), 102-113.

Brown, S., Goetzmann, W., & Ross, S. (1995). Survival. Journal of Finance 50(3), 853-873.

                                              33



                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
Cagan, P. 1956. The Monetary Dynamics of Hyperinflation. In Studies in the Quantity
Theory of Money, ed. Milton Friedman, 25-117. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.

Camerer, C. F., Dreber, A., Forsell, E., Ho, T. H., Huber, J., Johannesson, M., ... &
Heikensten, E. (2016). Evaluating replicability of laboratory experiments in economics.
Science 351(6280), 1433-1436.

Chen, N.-F., Roll., R., & Ross, S. A. (1986). Economic forces and the stock market, Journal
of Business, 59(3), 383-403.

Chordia, T., Goyal, A. & Saretto, A. (2017). p-Hacking: Evidence from Two Million Trading
Strategies. SSRN working paper 3017677.

Chordia, T., & Shivakumar, L. (2002). Momentum, business cycle, and time-varying
expected returns, Journal of Finance 57(4), 985-1019.

De Roon, F. A., & Nijman, T. E. (2001). Testing for mean-variance spanning: A survey.
Journal of Empirical Finance, 8, 111-155.

Dimson, E., Marsh, P., & Staunton, M. (2008). The worldwide equity premium: A smaller
puzzle. Chapter 11 in Mehra, R. (ed), Handbook of the Equity Risk Premium: Elsevier.

Doskov, N., & Swinkels, L. (2015). Empirical evidence on the currency carry trade, 1900–
2012. Journal of International Money and Finance, 51, 370-389.

Edwards, W., Lindman, H., and Savage, L.J. (1963). Bayesian statistical inference for
psychological research, Psychological Review 70, 193-242.

Erb, C. B., & Harvey, C. R. (2006). The strategic and tactical value of commodity futures.
Financial Analysts Journal, 62(2), 69-97.

Fama, E. F. (1984). Term premiums in bond returns. Journal of Financial Economics,
13(4), 529-546.

Fama, E. F., & French, K. R. (1989). Business conditions and expected returns on stocks
and bonds. Journal of Financial Economics 25, 23-49.

Fama, E. F., & French, K. R. (1993). Common risk factors in the returns on stocks and
bonds. Journal of Financial Economics, 33(1), 3-56.

Fama, E. F., & Gibbons, M. R. (1984). A comparison of inflation forecasts. Journal of
Monetary Economics, 13, 327-348.

Fama, E. F.; MacBeth, J. D. (1973). Risk, Return, and Equilibrium: Empirical Tests.
Journal of Political Economy 81(3), 607–636.

Ferson, W. E. & Harvey, C. R., (1991). The Variation of Economic Risk Premiums. Journal
of Political Economy 99, 385-415.

Frazzini, A., & Pedersen, L. H. (2014). Betting against beta. Journal of Financial
Economics, 111(1), 1-25.

Froot, K. A., & Thaler, R. H. (1990). Anomalies: foreign exchange. Journal of Economic
Perspectives, 4(3), 179-192.

                                             34



                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
Garcıa, D. (2013). Sentiment during recessions. Journal of Finance 68(3), 1267–1299.

Goetzmann, W.N., (1993). Patterns in three centuries of stock market prices. Journal of
Business, 249-270.

Goetzmann, W.N., & Huang, S. (2018). Momentum in Imperial Russia, Journal of
Financial Economics 130(3), 579-591.
Goetzmann, W.N., & D. Kim. (2018). Negative Bubbles: What Happens After a Crash.
European Financial Management 24(2), 171-191.

Golez, B., & Koudijs, P. (2018). Four centuries of return predictability. Journal of
Financial Economics 127(2), 248-263.

Griffin, J. M., Ji, X., & Martin, J. S. (2003). Momentum investing and business cycle risk:
Evidence from pole to pole, Journal of Finance 58(6), 2515-2547.

Harvey, C.R., (2017). Presidential Address: The Scientific Outlook in Financial
Economics. Journal of Finance, 72(4), pp. 1399–1440.

Harvey, C.R., Liu, Y. & Zhu, H. (2016). … and the Cross-Section of Expected Returns,
Review of Financial Studies, 29(1), 5-68.

Hou, K., Xue, C., and Zhang, L. (2017). Replicating anomalies. Review of Financial
Studies, forthcoming.

Hurst, B., Ooi, Y. H., & Pedersen, L. H. (2017). A century of evidence on trend-following
investing. Journal of Portfolio Management, 44(1), 15-29.

Ilmanen, A. (1995). Time‐ varying expected returns in international bond markets. The
Journal of Finance, 50(2), 481-506.

Jegadeesh, N., & Titman, S. (1993). Returns to Buying Winners and Selling Losers:
Implications for Stock Market Efficiency. Journal of Finance 48(1), 65-91.
Jensen, M.C. (1968). The Performance of Mutual Funds in the Period 1945-1964, Journal
of Finance 23, 389-416.

Jobst, C. (2009). Market leader: The Austro-Hungarian Bank and the making of foreign
exchange intervention, 1896-1913. European Review of Economic History 13(3), 287-318.

Jordà O., M. Schularick, & A. M. Taylor. 2017. Macrofinancial History and the New
Business Cycle Facts. NBER Macroeconomics Annual 2016, volume 31, edited by Martin
Eichenbaum and Jonathan A. Parker. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.

Keloharju, M., Linnainmaa, J. T., & Nyberg, P. (2016). Return seasonalities. Journal of
Finance, 71(4), 1557-1590.

Keloharju, M., Linnainmaa, J. T., & Nyberg, P. (2018). Seasonal reversals in expected
stock returns. Working Paper. Available at SSRN.

Koijen, R. S., Moskowitz, T. J., Pedersen, L. H., & Vrugt, E. B. (2018). Carry, Journal of
Financial Economics 127(2), 197-225.



                                             35



                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
Koudijs, P. (2016). The boats that did not sail: Asset price volatility in a natural
experiment. Journal of Finance, 71(3), 1185-1226.
Lesmond, D. A., Ogden, J. P. & Trzcinka, C. A. (1999). A new estimate of transaction costs,
Review of Financial Studies 12, 1113-1141
Lettau, M., Maggiori, M., & Weber, M. (2014). Conditional risk premiums in currency
markets and other asset classes. Journal of Financial Economics, 114(2), 197-225.
Linnainmaa, J. T., & Roberts, M. R. (2018). The History of the Cross Section of Stock
Returns. Review of Financial Studies 31(7), 2606-2649.

Menkhoff, L., Sarno, L., Schmeling, M., & Schrimpf, A. (2012). Currency momentum
strategies. Journal of Financial Economics, 106(3), 660-684.

Menkhoff, L., Sarno, L., Schmeling, M., & Schrimpf, A. (2017). Currency value. Review of
Financial Studies 30(2), 416-441.

Merton, R. C., (1973). An intertemporal capital asset pricing model. Econometrica 41, 867-
887.

Moskowitz, T.J., Ooi Y.H., & Pedersen, L.H. (2012). Time series momentum, Journal of
Financial Economics, 104(2), 228-250.

Open Science Collaboration. (2015). Estimating the reproducibility of psychological
science. Science, 349(6251), aac4716.

Post, T., & Van Vliet, P. (2006). Downside risk and asset pricing. Journal of Banking &
Finance, 30(3), 823-849.

Siegel, J. J. (1992). The equity premium: Stock and bond returns since 1802. Financial
Analysts Journal, 48(1), 28-38.

Stambaugh, R. F., Yu, J., & Yuan,Y., (2012). The short of it: Investor sentiment and
anomalies. Journal of Financial Economics 104, 288–320.

Taylor, A. M. (2002). A century of purchasing-power parity. Review of Economics and
Statistics, 84(1), 139-150.




                                             36



                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
                                                Figures
Figure 1: Global factor returns since 1800. The figure shows the annualized Sharpe ratios for the 24 global
return factors. The dashed lines show the cutoff on the Sharpe ratio corresponding to t-values of 1.96 (in light
grey) and 3.00 (in black) respectively. The values above each bar are the Bayesian p-values using a 4-to-1 prior
odds ratio. Numbers in bold are below the 5% significance level. Panel A shows the results for the ‘original
sample’ period, Panel B shows the results for the ‘replication sample’ period 1981-2011, Panel C shows the ‘new
sample’ spanning the 1800-1980 and 2012-2016 period. The global factors are long-short portfolios applied on
international equity indices (“EQ”), 10-year maturity government bond indices (“FI”), commodities (“COM”),
and currencies (“FX”).


Panel A: Original documentation




Panel B: Replicating factors 1981-2011




                                                     37



                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
Panel C: New sample evidence: 1800-1980 & 2012-2016




                                                38



                 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
Figure 2: Global financial markets since 1800. The figure shows the number of markets included in the
investment universe. The sample starts in December 1799 and ends December 2016 and is at the monthly
frequency. Covered are equity indices (“Equities”), 10-year maturity government bond indices (“Bonds”),
commodities (“Commodities”), and currencies (“FX”).



   80
               Equities      Bonds        Commodities      FX
   70

   60

   50

   40

   30

   20

   10

    0




                                                 39



                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
Figure 3: Downside risk and global factor premiums. The figure shows regular and downside betas versus the
average return on the global factors. The left panel shows the regular beta (“Beta”) and the right panel shows the
downside beta (“Beta-”). The sample runs from 1800 until 2016 and is at the monthly frequency.




                       10.0%                                                             10.0%

                           8.0%                                                          8.0%

                           6.0%                                                          6.0%



    Excess Retrn                                                  Excess Retrn
                           4.0%                                                          4.0%

                           2.0%                                                          2.0%

                           0.0%                                                          0.0%
      -0.10        -0.05       0.00          0.05   0.10   0.15     -0.10        -0.05       0.00       0.05   0.10   0.15
                           -2.0%                                                         -2.0%
                                      Beta                                                          Beta-




                                                             40



                            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
                                                    Tables

                           Table I: Original studies on global factor premiums
The table contains the factor definitions, t-stats, Sharpe ratios, start date, end date, portfolio construction
method, and number of assets for each of the original studies on global factor premiums: Asness, Moskowitz,
and Pedersen (2013) for value and cross-sectional momentum, Koijen, Moskowitz, Pedersen, and Vrugt (2018)
for carry, Moskowitz, Ooi, and Pedersen (2012) for time-series momentum, Frazzini and Pedersen (2014) for
the (betting against) beta anomaly, and Keloharju, Linnainmaa, and Nyberg (2016) for the monthly return
seasonal. Abbreviations for the factor definitions are BE/ME: Book value of Equity divided by the Market value
of Equity, 5Y Rel PPP: 5-year Relative Purchasing Power Parity, 5Y Rev: 5-year Reversal, 12M-1M: Past 12-
month returns minus the last month, Impl DY: Futures-Implied Dividend Yield, Rate diff: Interest rate
differential, 20Y,M: Average monthly return over the past 20-year period. Abbreviations for the portfolio
construction are P1-P3: Equally-weighted top tercile portfolio minus the bottom tercile portfolio, Rank: Using
weights proportional to the asset’s rank, < >0: Volatility-weighted portfolio position depending on the sign of
the past 12-month return. The number of assets is the maximum number of assets used per asset class. The
columns with t-statistics or Sharpe ratios contain those reported as the main result; this does not exclude the
possibility that results from other choices have also been presented in robustness analyses. The t-statistics or
Sharpe ratios that are in italics are not presented in the original studies, but calculated using other information
provided. Note that Asness, Moskowitz, and Pedersen (2013) report both P1-P3 and Rank weighted returns for
value and cross-sectional momentum in their main table, and results are similar for the two methods.


  Factor          Asset               Definition     t-stat    Sharpe ratio     Start    End     Portfolio   Assets
  Trend           Equity indices         12M          3.77         0.75         1985     2009       <> 0        9
                  Bond indices           12M          3.53         0.71         1985     2009       <> 0       13
                  Commodities            12M          4.66         0.93         1985     2009       <> 0       24
                  FX                     12M          3.41         0.68         1985     2009       <> 0       12
  Momentum        Equity indices       12M-1M         4.14         0.73         1972     2011      P1-P3       18
                  Bond indices         12M-1M         0.35         0.06         1982     2011      P1-P3       10
                  Commodities          12M-1M         3.29         0.53         1972     2011      P1-P3       27
                  FX                   12M-1M         1.90         0.34         1979     2011      P1-P3       10
  Value           Equity indices        BE/ME         3.45         0.61         1972     2011      P1-P3       18
                  Bond indices          5Y Rev.       0.97         0.18         1982     2011      P1-P3       10
                  Commodities           5Y Rev.       1.61         0.26         1972     2011      P1-P3       27
                  FX                 5Y Rel. PPP      1.89         0.34         1979     2011      P1-P3       10
  Carry           Equity indices      Impl. DY-rf     4.46         0.91         1988     2012      Rank        13
                  Bond indices        Slope+Roll      2.80         0.52         1983     2012      Rank        10
                  Commodities            Basis        3.39         0.60         1980     2012      Rank        24
                  FX                   Rate diff.     3.66         0.68         1983     2012      Rank        20
  Seasonal        Equity indices        20Y, M        2.76         0.45         1974     2011      P1-P3       15
                  Bond indices          20Y, M          -            -            -        -          -         -
                  Commodities           20Y, M        1.97         0.32         1974     2011      P1-P3       24
                  FX                    20Y, M          -            -            -        -          -         -
  BAB             Equity indices         Beta         2.93         0.51         1984     2012      Rank        13
                  Bond indices           Beta         0.67         0.14         1989     2012      Rank         9
                  Commodities            Beta         0.72         0.11         1989     2012      Rank        25
                  FX                     Beta         1.23         0.22         1977     2012      Rank        10
  Average                                             2.70         0.49         1981     2011                  16




                                                        41



                     Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
               Table II: Historical performance of global return factors: replicating sample
The table summarizes the historical performance of the global return factors. Shown per factor per asset class
are the historical annualized Sharpe ratio. The sample starts in January 1981 and ends December 2011 and is
at the monthly frequency. Covered are equity indices (“Equities”), 10-year maturity government bond indices
(“Bonds”), commodities (“Commodities”), currencies (“FX”), and their equally weighted combination across the
four asset classes (“Multi Asset”). Numbers in parentheses indicate t-values. Asterisks are used to indicate
significance at a 10% (*), 5% (**) or 1% (***) level.


 Sharpe ratio              Trend          Momentum           Value     Carry     Seasonality      BAB
 Equities                  0.62***          0.61***           0.34*    0.87***     0.36**         0.37**
                            (3.44)           (3.39)          (1.89)    (4.83)      (2.00)         (2.05)
 Bonds                     0.53***            0.29            0.29     0.71***      -0.09         0.36**
                            (2.94)           (1.61)          (1.61)    (3.94)      (-0.50)        (2.00)
 Commodities               0.88***          0.62***           0.22     0.44**     0.48***          0.01
                            (4.89)           (3.44)          (1.22)    (2.44)      (2.67)         (0.06)
 FX                        0.53***            0.23            0.32*    0.53***      0.00           0.13
                            (2.94)           (1.28)          (1.78)    (2.94)      (0.00)         (0.72)
 Multi Asset               1.09***          0.78***          0.55***   1.15***     0.40**         0.39**
                            (6.05)           (4.33)          (3.05)    (6.39)      (2.22)         (2.17)




                                                        42



                    Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
            Table III: Statistical perspectives on global return factors: replicating sample
The table summarizes various statistical perspectives on the historical performance of the global return factors.
Shown per factor per asset class are the historical frequentist p-value (“p-value”), Bayesianized p-value using a
4-to-1 prior odds ratio (“Bayesian-p”) and break-even prior odds at a 5% confidence level (“BE-odds”) of its
performance. The sample starts in January 1981 and ends December 2011 and is at the monthly frequency.
Covered are equity indices (“Equities”), 10-year maturity government bond indices (“Bonds”), commodities
(“Commodities”), currencies (“FX”), and their equally weighted combination across the four asset classes (“Multi
Asset”).


                                       Trend       Momentum         Value        Carry      Seasonality       BAB

 Equities           p-value             0.00           0.00          0.06         0.00          0.05          0.04
                    Bayesian-p          0.04           0.05          0.64        0.00           0.60          0.58
                    BE-odds             4.03           3.44          0.10       947.75          0.12          0.13
 Bonds              p-value             0.00           0.11          0.11         0.00          0.62          0.05
                    Bayesian-p          0.17           0.72          0.72         0.01          0.76          0.60
                    BE-odds              0.93          0.07          0.07        22.78          0.06          0.12
 Commodities        p-value             0.00           0.00          0.22         0.01          0.01          0.95
                    Bayesian-p          0.00           0.04          0.78         0.40          0.29          0.34
                    BE-odds           1,255.10         4.03          0.05         0.28          0.47          0.37
 FX                 p-value             0.00           0.20          0.08         0.00          1.00          0.47
                    Bayesian-p          0.17           0.78          0.68         0.17          1.00          0.79
                    BE-odds             0.93           0.05          0.09         0.93          0.00          0.05
 Multi Asset        p-value             0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00          0.03          0.03
                    Bayesian-p          0.00           0.00          0.13         0.00          0.51          0.53
                    BE-odds            >9,999        105.45          1.26       >9,999          0.18          0.17




                                                      43



                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
                Table IV: Historical performance of global return factors: 1800 - 2016
The table summarizes the historical performance of the global return factors. Shown per factor per asset class
are the historical annualized Sharpe ratio. The sample starts in January 1800 and ends December 2016 and is
at the monthly frequency. Panel A shows the results for the ‘new sample’ periods (1800-1980 and 2012-2016),
Panel B shows the full sample results (1800-2016). Covered are equity indices (“Equities”), 10-year maturity
government bond indices (“Bonds”), commodities (“Commodities”), currencies (“FX”), and their equally weighted
combination across the four asset classes (“Multi Asset”). Numbers in parentheses indicate t-values. Asterisks
are used to indicate significance at a 10% (*), 5% (**) or 1% (***) level.


Panel A: 1800-1980 and 2012-2016
 Sharpe ratio            Trend         Momentum          Value       Carry      Seasonality       BAB
 Equities                0.75***         0.37***         0.27***    0.68***       0.60***        0.34***
                         (11.04)          (5.43)         (3.41)      (9.90)        (8.79)         (4.99)
 Bonds                   0.49***         0.31***         0.28***    0.44***       0.73***         -0.02
                          (7.22)          (4.56)         (3.37)      (6.48)        (10.73)       (-0.29)
 Commodities             0.23***           -0.07         0.50***     0.36**       0.85***         -0.06
                          (3.38)          (-0.99)        (7.07)      (2.52)        (12.01)       (-0.85)
 FX                      0.60***         0.32***          0.03      0.52***       0.30***         -0.04
                          (8.83)          (4.71)         (0.36)      (7.65)        (4.41)        (-0.59)
 Multi Asset             0.98***         0.47***         0.52***    0.91***       1.21***         0.13*
                         (14.43)          (6.92)         (7.36)     (13.40)        (17.79)        (1.91)

Panel B: 1800-2016
 Sharpe ratio             Trend        Momentum          Value       Carry      Seasonality       BAB
 Equities                0.78***         0.43***         0.30***    0.75***       0.61***        0.37***
                         (11.49)          (6.31)         (3.79)     (10.91)        (8.94)         (5.43)
 Bonds                   0.54***         0.33***         0.32***    0.50***       0.69***          0.03
                          (7.95)          (4.85)         (3.85)      (7.36)        (10.14)        (0.44)
 Commodities             0.35***           0.05          0.49***    0.49***       0.85***         -0.05
                          (5.15)          (0.71)         (6.93)      (3.42)        (12.01)       (-0.71)
 FX                      0.64***         0.33***          0.09      0.56***       0.29***          0.00
                          (9.42)          (4.86)         (1.09)      (8.24)        (4.26)         (0.00)
 Multi Asset             1.07***         0.55***         0.56***    1.02***       1.19***        0.19***
                         (15.76)          (8.09)         (7.92)     (15.02)        (17.49)        (2.79)




                                                    44



                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
                 Table V: Statistical perspectives on global return factors: 1800 - 2016
The table summarizes various statistical perspectives on the historical performance of the global return factors.
Shown per factor per asset class are the historical frequentist p-value (“p-value”), Bayesian p-value using a 4-
to-1 prior odds ratio (“Bayesian-p”) and break-even prior odds at a 5% confidence level (“BE-odds”) of its
performance. The sample starts in January 1800 and ends December 2016 and is at the monthly frequency.
Panel A shows the results for the ‘new sample’ periods (1800-1980 and 2012-2016), Panel B shows the full
sample results (1800-2016). Covered are equity indices (“Equities”), 10-year maturity government bond indices
(“Bonds”), commodities (“Commodities”), currencies (“FX”), and their equally weighted combination across the
four asset classes (“Multi Asset”).


Panel A: 1800-1980 and 2012-2016
                                      Trend      Momentum        Value        Carry       Seasonality       BAB
 Equities            p-value           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00           0.00
                     Bayesian-p        0.00          0.00         0.05        0.00           0.00           0.00
                     BE-odds          >9,999       >9,999         3.67       >9,999         >9,999        2,021.00
 Bonds               p-value           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00           0.77
                     Bayesian-p        0.00          0.00         0.06        0.00           0.00           0.68
                     BE-odds          >9,999       280.39         3.23       >9,999         >9,999          0.09
 Commodities         p-value           0.00          0.32         0.00         0.01          0.00           0.40
                     Bayesian-p        0.05          0.80         0.00         0.36          0.00           0.80
                     BE-odds           3.33          0.05        >9,999        0.33         >9,999          0.05
 FX                  p-value           0.00          0.00         0.72         0.00          0.00           0.56
                     Bayesian-p        0.00          0.00         0.72         0.00          0.00           0.78
                     BE-odds          >9,999       546.48         0.07       >9,999         147.25          0.05
 Multi Asset         p-value           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00           0.06
                     Bayesian-p        0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00           0.00           0.64
                     BE-odds          >9,999       >9,999        >9,999      >9,999         >9,999          0.11

Panel B: 1800-2016
                                       Trend       Momentum        Value       Carry       Seasonality       BAB
 Equities            p-value            0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00           0.00          0.00
                     Bayesian-p         0.00          0.00          0.01        0.00          0.00           0.00
                     BE-odds           >9,999        >9,999        13.18       >9,999        >9,999         >9,999
 Bonds               p-value            0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00           0.00          0.66
                     Bayesian-p         0.00          0.00          0.01        0.00          0.00           0.75
                     BE-odds           >9,999       1,040.34       16.36       >9,999        >9,999          0.06
 Commodities         p-value            0.00          0.48          0.00        0.00           0.00          0.48
                     Bayesian-p         0.00          0.79          0.00        0.05           0.00          0.79
                     BE-odds          4,424.81        0.05         >9,999       3.78         >9,999          0.05
 FX                  p-value            0.00          0.00          0.28        0.00           0.00          1.00
                     Bayesian-p         0.00          0.00          0.79        0.00           0.00          1.00
                     BE-odds           >9,999       1,090.15        0.05       >9,999         79.16          0.00
 Multi Asset         p-value            0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00           0.00          0.01
                     Bayesian-p         0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00          0.00           0.23
                     BE-odds           >9,999        >9,999        >9,999      >9,999        >9,999          0.63




                                                      45



                    Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
                        Table VI: Sub-period performance of global return factors
The table summarizes the historical sub-period performance of the return factors. Shown per factor per asset
class is the percentage of rolling 10-year period with positive Sharpe ratios (“P(SR10y>0)”). The sample starts
in January 1800 and ends December 2016 and is at the monthly frequency. Covered are equity indices
(“Equities”), 10-year maturity government bond indices (“Bonds”), commodities (“Commodities”), currencies
(“FX”), and their equally weighted combination across the four asset classes (“Multi Asset”). Numbers in
parentheses indicate t-values. Asterisks are used to indicate significance at a 10% (*), 5% (**) or 1% (***) level,
where in Panel A p-values are based on Newey-West to account for overlapping observations.


P(SR10y>0)              Trend         Momentum              Value       Carry        Seasonality       BAB
Equity                 98%***           85%***           75%***         95%***         90%***        78%***
Bond                   92%***           72%***           83%***         81%***         89%***         34%**
Commodities            73%***             51%            91%***         97%***         99%***          45%
FX                     92%***           83%***              61%         80%***           62%           35%
Multi Asset           100%***           91%***           93%***         99%***         100%***         56%




                                                       46



                    Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
                         Table VII: Robustness of global return factors: 1800-2016
The table summarizes the robustness of the historical performance of the return factors to strategy construction
choices. The factors are tested with the following different implementation methodologies: No liquidity screen,
Tercile long-short portfolios (T1-T3), Quartile (Q1-Q4) long-short portfolios (“Quartile portfolios”), no volatility
weighting of individual markets or beta scaling of the BAB portfolios (“No volatility or beta scaling”), a 1-month
implementation lag (“One month lagged signals”), a quarterly rebalancing period (“Quarterly rebalance period”),
and by capping returns of factor returns in a particular market at 50% (“Trimming extreme returns”). We also
report the average Sharpe ratio across these various definitions (“Average Sharpe Ratio”) and fraction of settings
that yield a significant Sharpe ratio (“Fraction”). The sample starts in January 1800 and ends December 2016 and
is at the monthly frequency. Shown are the historical annualized Sharpe ratio for each factor per asset class and
for the equally weighted multi-asset combination across the four asset classes. Bold numbers indicate significance
at the 5% level, while italic numbers are omitted from significance tests.


                                                             No           One                   Trimming
                                   No                                               Quarterly              Average
               Asset                           Tercile       volatility   month                 extreme
 Factor                 Baseline   liquidity                                        rebalance              Sharpe      Fraction
               Class                           portfolios    or beta      lagged                returns
                                   screen                                           period                 Ratio
                                                             scaling      signals               (|50%|)
 Trend         Eq.        0.78       0.80        0.78          0.68        0.74       0.68        0.72       0.74        7/7
 Trend         Bo.        0.54       0.66        0.54          0.49        0.56       0.45        0.49       0.52        7/7
 Trend         Co.        0.35       0.79        0.35          0.30        0.26       0.23        0.28       0.35        7/7
 Trend         FX         0.64       0.68        0.64          0.40        0.55       0.58        0.51       0.57        7/7
 Momentum      Eq.        0.43       0.52        0.41          0.40        0.36       0.35        0.39       0.40        7/7
 Momentum      Bo.        0.33       0.39        0.34          0.27        0.28       0.23        0.27       0.29        7/7
 Momentum      Co.        0.05       0.12        0.06          0.11        -0.06      -0.08       0.10       0.04        0/7
 Momentum      FX         0.33       0.54        0.32          0.25        0.39       0.30        0.29       0.32        7/7
 Value         Eq.        0.30       0.34        0.31          0.31        0.32       0.29        0.32       0.30        7/7
 Value         Bo.        0.32       0.35        0.30          0.37        0.25       0.22        0.35       0.29        7/7
 Value         Co.        0.49       0.48        0.48          0.49        0.57       0.55        0.49       0.49        7/7
 Value         FX         0.09       0.51        0.09          0.16        0.05       0.16        0.15       0.15        1/7
 Carry         Eq.        0.75       0.82        0.69          0.49        0.19       0.52        0.61       0.59        7/7
 Carry         Bo.        0.50       0.63        0.47          0.68        0.54       0.53        0.64       0.55        7/7
 Carry         Co.        0.49       0.48        0.54          0.58        0.54       0.52        0.57       0.51        7/7
 Carry         FX         0.56       0.83        0.52          0.31        0.48       0.49        0.40       0.48        7/7
 Seasonality   Eq.        0.61       0.72        0.55          0.31        -0.18      0.36        0.48       0.42        7/7
 Seasonality   Bo.        0.69       1.17        0.61          0.82        -0.14      0.48        0.83       0.65        7/7
 Seasonality   Co.        0.85       0.79        0.78          0.82        0.14       0.63        0.82       0.71        7/7
 Seasonality   FX         0.29       0.46        0.31          0.04        0.04       0.23        0.22       0.22        5/7
 BAB           Eq.        0.37       0.38        0.35          -0.11       0.37       0.31        0.05       0.22        5/7
 BAB           Bo.        0.03       -0.07       0.05          -0.05       -0.02      0.05        -0.09      -0.04       0/7
 BAB           Co.        -0.05      -0.22       -0.06         0.02        0.01       -0.04       -0.06      -0.07       1/7
 BAB           FX         0.00       -0.01       -0.01         -0.10       0.02       0.02        -0.03      -0.03       0/7

 Trend         MA         1.07       1.34        1.07          0.80        0.98       0.90        0.91       1.00        7/7
 Momentum      MA         0.55       0.76        0.54          0.41        0.50       0.42        0.48       0.50        7/7
 Value         MA         0.56       0.76        0.55          0.63        0.55       0.58        0.59       0.57        7/7
 Carry         MA         1.02       1.26        0.95          0.80        0.73       0.88        0.93       0.91        7/7
 Seasonality   MA         1.19       1.50        1.10          0.98        -0.07      0.78        1.11       0.95        7/7
 BAB           MA         0.19       0.01        0.18          -0.04       0.21       0.18        -0.06      0.06        4/7




                                                        47



                     Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
                    Table VIII: Market risk, common variation and global return factors
 The table summarizes the market risk and common variation of the global return factors. Panel A shows per
 factor per asset class the historical annualized Jensen’s alpha (in percent) relative to global excess equity, bond,
 currency and commodity market returns. The alpha’s are scaled to a 10% ex-post volatility for ease of
 comparison. Panel B contains the average pairwise monthly return correlations across the four asset classes
 (“Factor”), and per asset class or their equally weighted multi-asset aggregation (“Asset class”). Panel C shows
 the results of spanning tests for each factor return series per asset class on all other factor return series. The
 return series are scaled to a 10% ex-post volatility for ease of interpretability. The sample starts in January
 1800 and ends December 2016 and is at the monthly frequency. Numbers in parentheses indicate t-values.
 Asterisks are used to indicate significance at a 10% (*), 5% (**) or 1% (***) level.


Panel A: Jensen’s alpha

 Alpha                     Trend       Momentum          Value          Carry       Seasonality        BAB
 Equities                 7.48***        4.44***        2.36***        7.21***         5.70***        3.32***
                          (10.97)         (6.51)         (4.02)         (10.67)         (8.39)         (4.90)
 Bonds                    5.47***        3.38***        2.16***        4.86***         7.03***          0.36
                           (8.00)         (4.96)         (3.87)         (7.14)         (10.32)         (0.54)
 Commodities              3.63***         0.51          4.04***        1.09***         7.22***         -0.52
                           (5.70)         (0.85)         (6.69)         (3.32)         (11.84)         (-0.89)
 FX                       6.33***        3.14***          0.68         5.32***         2.73***         -0.27
                           (9.27)         (4.60)         (1.22)         (7.83)          (4.02)         (-0.42)
 Multi Asset              10.76***       5.58***        4.85***        9.84***        11.69***         1.55**
                          (15.74)         (8.17)         (8.00)         (14.45)        (17.13)         (2.31)


Panel B: Average pairwise correlations

                        Trend         Momentum          Value            Carry       Seasonality        BAB
 Factor                0.05***         0.04**           -0.01             0.00          0.00             0.02
                       Equities        Bonds         Commodities           FX        Multi Asset
 Asset class            0.08***        0.05***           0.02           0.10***         0.07***


Panel C: Spanning tests

 Intercept (ann.)           Trend       Momentum          Value          Carry       Seasonality        BAB
 Equities                  3.53***         1.42*          2.25**        5.42***        3.72***          1.07
                            (4.93)         (1.91)         (2.46)         (6.68)         (4.63)         (1.39)
 Bonds                     2.11***         -0.71         4.00***        2.70***        4.66***         1.46*
                            (2.99)        (-0.98)         (4.30)         (3.70)         (6.15)         (1.83)
 Commodities               2.96***         -0.59         7.07***         3.72**        9.23***         -0.82
                            (4.17)        (-0.84)         (8.57)         (2.36)        (10.25)         (-0.90)
 FX                        4.06***        -1.24**           1.18        3.02***          0.22          -1.18
                            (6.88)        (-2.02)         (1.37)         (4.06)         (0.29)         (-1.36)
 Multi Asset               6.44***          0.19         7.70***        5.38***        8.32***          0.82
                            (10.51)        (0.29)         (9.36)         (7.42)        (11.56)         (1.07)




                                                       48



                     Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
                           Table IX: Downside risk and global return factors
The table shows the beta and downside betas of the 24 global return factors and their multi-asset combinations.
The downside beta is calculated versus the excess return of the equity market portfolio and uses -1 standard
deviation as the threshold. The table is sorted on the difference between downside beta (-) and regular CAPM
beta ()and also shows annualized CAPM alpha () and DR CAPM alpha (-), both in percent. The sample
starts in January 1800 and ends December 2016. Bold numbers indicate significant alphas at the 5% level.

  Factor           Asset Class            -                  -                 -
  Value            FX                   0.01        -0.07       0.08       1.24       0.85
  Momentum         Equities             0.04        -0.03       0.07       4.35       4.11
  Carry            FX                   0.07        0.01        0.06       5.53       5.31
  Seasonal         Equities             0.10        0.06        0.04       5.86       5.70
  Carry            Commodities          0.03        -0.02       0.04       4.81       4.62
  Momentum         FX                   0.06        0.03        0.03       3.19       3.07
  BAB              Commodities          0.14        0.11        0.03       -0.99      -1.11
  Seasonal         Bonds                0.00        -0.02       0.02       7.00       6.91
  Value            Equities             -0.04       -0.06       0.02       3.34       3.24
  Carry            Equities             0.06        0.04        0.02       7.39       7.32
  Carry            Bonds                0.07        0.05        0.02       4.86       4.79
  BAB              Equities             0.11        0.09        0.01       3.39       3.33
  Value            Commodities          0.03        0.02        0.01       5.55       5.51
  Seasonal         Commodities          -0.01       -0.02       0.01       9.30       9.26
  Seasonal         FX                   0.07        0.06        0.01       2.68       2.64
  Momentum         Commodities          -0.02       -0.02       0.00       0.62       0.61
  Trend            FX                   0.02        0.03        -0.01      6.30       6.34
  Momentum         Bonds                -0.04       -0.03       -0.01      3.40       3.44
  BAB              Bonds                -0.05       -0.02       -0.03      0.42       0.52
  Trend            Commodities          -0.08       -0.05       -0.03      3.89       4.01
  Trend            Bonds                -0.07       -0.04       -0.04      5.48       5.61
  Value            Bonds                -0.07       -0.01       -0.06      3.20       3.48
  BAB              FX                   0.05        0.12        -0.07      -0.44      -0.19
  Trend            Equities             -0.04       0.06        -0.11      7.58       7.96

  Carry            Multi Asset          0.11        0.05        0.06       9.95       9.73
  Momentum         Multi Asset          0.03        -0.02       0.04       5.52       5.36
  Seasonal         Multi Asset          0.08        0.04        0.04       11.71      11.58
  Value            Multi Asset          -0.04       -0.06       0.02       6.36       6.25
  BAB              Multi Asset          0.12        0.13        -0.01      1.43       1.47
  Trend            Multi Asset          -0.08       0.01        -0.09      10.68      10.99




                                                      49



                    Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
                         Table X: Global return factors in ‘good’ and ‘bad’ states
The table summarizes the historical performance of global return factors across various ‘good’ and ‘bad’ states
based on macroeconomic and market sub-periods. Sub-periods examined are at the annual frequency and
include recession versus non-recession, global crisis versus non-crisis, and bear and bull equity markets. Shown
are historical (annualized) return per macroeconomic state for each factor-asset class combination and the
equally weighted multi-asset combinations across the four asset classes. The column “Dif.” contains the
differential factor returns between bad and good states. The final row (“Panel”) contains the aggregate impact
estimated using panel regressions across all global return factors. The panel regression include index fixed-
effects and standard errors clustered by date. The sample starts in January 1800 and ends December 2016 and
is at the monthly frequency. Bold numbers indicate significance at the 5% level.

                            Recession/expansion                   Crisis/non-crisis            Bear/bull market
               Asset
                           Rec.     Exp.      Dif.        Crisis     Non-Crisis       Dif.    Bear    Bull    Dif.
 Factor        Class
 Trend         Eq.         7.42     8.01     -0.59        8.81           7.49         1.32    9.66    7.35    2.31
 Trend         Bo.         5.92     5.05      0.87        4.51           5.61         -1.11   4.30    5.61    -1.31
 Trend         Co.         5.41     2.68      2.74        3.27           3.83         -0.56   6.40    2.98    3.42
 Trend         FX          4.91     7.18     -2.27        7.59           6.03         1.55    8.94    5.78    3.16
 Momentum      Eq.         4.01     4.37     -0.36        4.68           4.11         0.57    4.72    4.13    0.60
 Momentum      Bo.         3.13     3.37     -0.25        1.59           3.83         -2.23   3.51    3.23    0.28
 Momentum      Co.         0.41     0.52     -0.11        -2.83          1.82         -4.65   1.51    0.20    1.31
 Momentum      FX          1.74     4.12     -2.38        2.58           3.53         -0.94   3.42    3.27    0.15
 Value         Eq.         5.81     1.07      4.74        3.60           2.83         0.77    7.25    2.05    5.20
 Value         Bo.         2.31     3.71     -1.40        1.33           3.96         -2.63   4.27    2.84    1.42
 Value         Co.         5.09     5.59     -0.50        7.72           4.42         3.30    5.51    5.36    0.15
 Value         FX          0.69     1.00     -0.31        -0.02          1.27         -1.30   -0.64   1.27    -1.91
 Carry         Eq.         9.48     6.53      2.95        7.58           7.54         0.04    8.53    7.31    1.23
 Carry         Bo.         7.08     3.98      3.10        4.52           5.21         -0.68   6.15    4.77    1.37
 Carry         Co.         7.06     3.14      3.93        -0.48          5.91         -6.40   8.49    3.52    4.97
 Carry         FX          4.73     6.01     -1.28        1.88           6.72         -4.83   6.42    5.36    1.06
 Seasonality   Eq.         7.31     5.41      1.90        5.22           6.33         -1.11   4.57    6.43    -1.86
 Seasonality   Bo.         8.10     6.30      1.80        5.96           7.22         -1.26   6.58    7.00    -0.42
 Seasonality   Co.         11.02    7.97      3.05        7.52           9.90         -2.38   8.78    9.32    -0.54
 Seasonality   FX          1.84     3.47     -1.63        0.92           3.53         -2.61   3.35    2.80    0.55
 BAB           Eq.         2.32     4.46     -2.15        4.05           3.63         0.42    1.87    4.19    -2.32
 BAB           Bo.         0.70     0.16      0.55        1.57          -0.05         1.61    -0.03   0.43    -0.46
 BAB           Co.         -6.46    3.52     -9.98        -2.14          0.14         -2.28   -7.74   1.36    -9.10
 BAB           FX          -1.65    0.84     -2.49        2.18          -0.70         2.88    -1.14   0.23    -1.37


 Trend         MA          10.87    10.61     0.26        11.21         10.54         0.67    13.29   10.06   3.23
 Momentum      MA          4.37     6.02     -1.65        3.12           6.19         -3.08   6.31    5.24    1.07
 Value         MA          6.80     5.61      1.19        6.21           6.04         0.17    7.64    5.69    1.96
 Carry         MA          12.24    9.06      3.18        7.53          10.96         -3.43   12.39   9.59    2.80
 Seasonality   MA          13.91    10.79     3.12        9.73          12.52         -2.79   11.17   12.02   -0.86
 BAB           MA          -2.79    4.32     -7.11        2.32           1.75         0.57    -3.41   3.20    -6.61

 Panel                     5.00     4.95      0.05        4.95           4.97         -0.02   6.33    4.62    1.71




                                                     50



                     Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
                              Table XI: Macroeconomic risks and global factor returns
The table summarizes the explanatory power of macroeconomic risk for the global return factors using methods outlined
in Griffin, Ji and Martin (2003). We explain returns to each global return factor, regressing their returns on global
macroeconomic variables. The macroeconomic variables are as in Chen, Roll and Ross (1986): industrial production
growth (MP), term premium (UTS), change in expected inﬂation (DEI), and unexpected inﬂation (UI). The coefficients
and annualized intercept (“Interc. (ann.)”) of the regression are shown in the table. We combine the resulting loadings
against macroeconomic risks with estimates of risk premiums of these risks (estimated using Fama and MacBeth on all
global return factors) to get the predicted return originating from an unconditional macroeconomic risk model (“Predicted
(Unc.)”). We also estimate the time-series regressions using a 60-month rolling window and generate one-step ahead
forecast of return; we report the average prediction in the column “Predicted (Cond.)”. The table further contains the
historical average annual return (“Actual”) and the differences with predicted returns (i.e. the unexplained return;
“Diff.”). The sample starts in February 1869 and ends December 2016 and is at the monthly frequency. Bold numbers
indicate significance at the 5% level.



                Asset                                       Interc.              Predicted           Predicted
 Factor                    MP      UTS     DEI      UI                  Actual               Diff.                 Diff.
                Class                                       (ann.)                (Unc.)              (Cond.)
 Trend          Eq.        0.00    -0.03   -0.22   -0.03     9.20        9.61      4.22      5.39      -2.20      11.72
 Trend          Bo.        -0.02   0.02    0.07    0.00         6.47     5.82      -2.37     8.19       -0.01      5.97
 Trend          Co.        0.00    0.09    0.18    -0.03        3.21     4.25      -1.93     6.18       -4.42      8.68
 Trend          FX         0.01    -0.05   -0.16   0.00         6.41     6.36      2.76      3.61       4.00       2.25
 Momentum       Eq.        0.00    0.00    -0.08   -0.01        5.66     5.73      1.07      4.66       -2.80      8.41
 Momentum       Bo.        -0.01   -0.06   -0.07   -0.03        5.12     4.89      2.26      2.63       3.76       1.22
 Momentum       Co.        0.01    0.03    0.09    -0.03        -0.60    0.43      0.29      0.14       -1.30      1.85
 Momentum       FX         0.00    -0.02   -0.08   0.01         3.66     3.54      1.16      2.37       0.90       2.78
 Value          Eq.        -0.01   0.00    0.07    -0.03        3.49     3.39      -0.53     3.92       1.58       1.63
 Value          Bo.        -0.04   0.00    -0.08   0.00         4.56     3.14      -1.44     4.67       3.32       0.02
 Value          Co.        -0.01   -0.12   -0.13   0.03         7.16     5.37      0.89      4.48       -2.64      7.88
 Value          FX         0.02    -0.13   0.17    0.01         1.24     0.88      0.21      0.69       -6.75      7.75
 Carry          Eq.        0.01    -0.19   0.14    -0.03        8.91     8.46      2.62      5.84       -0.68      9.06
 Carry          Bo.        0.02    0.06    -0.15   -0.02        4.77     6.16      2.76      3.40       -2.34      8.64
 Carry          Co.        -0.02   -0.13   0.22    0.00         6.63     4.74      -1.51     4.42       -4.58      9.45
 Carry          FX         0.02    -0.12   0.11    -0.01        5.59     5.52      1.58      3.95       -2.59      8.46
 Seasonality    Eq.        0.01    -0.25   -0.30   0.00         6.59     5.48      7.41      -1.94      -5.39     10.54
 Seasonality    Bo.        0.01    -0.15   -0.06   -0.03        7.37     7.16      4.26      2.90       -0.63      7.99
 Seasonality    Co.        0.03    -0.06   -0.10   -0.04        8.49     9.83      5.21      4.62       -1.15     11.21
 Seasonality    FX         0.01    -0.12   -0.11   0.02         2.84     2.16      2.63      -0.51      -8.33     10.69
 BAB            Eq.        0.03    0.13    0.07    -0.01        3.38     5.37      -0.36     5.73       1.30       4.28
 BAB            Bo.        -0.04   0.09    0.13    -0.01        1.12     0.40      -4.47     4.87       3.46       -3.01
 BAB            Co.        0.01    0.22    0.06    0.05         -1.16   -0.14      -4.81     4.67       -3.00      2.92
 BAB            FX         0.01    0.20    -0.04   -0.08        -2.43    0.62      1.58      -1.11      -1.80      2.65

 Trend          MA         0.00    0.01    -0.06   -0.02        11.82   12.10      1.19      10.91      -0.99     13.07
 Momentum       MA         0.00    -0.02   -0.07   -0.03        6.64     6.96      2.27      4.69       0.36       6.64
 Value          MA         -0.02   -0.13   0.02    0.02         8.44     6.51      -0.52     7.03       -2.45      8.93
 Carry          MA         0.02    -0.15   0.06    -0.03        10.94   11.39      3.84      7.55       -3.84     15.38
 Seasonality    MA         0.03    -0.29   -0.28   -0.03        12.73   12.39      9.74      2.65       -7.54     20.04
 BAB            MA         0.00    0.32    0.12    0.00         0.96     3.13      -5.26     8.39       0.33       3.07




                                                           51



                      Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
                                               Appendix A

                                            A.I: Factor definitions


    Time-series momentum (“Trend”). Moskowitz, Ooi, and Pedersen (2012) use a 12-

month trend measure for their sample of liquid futures contracts after 1985. We skip the

last month on trend investing, as this safeguards against potential liquidity issues that

might be especially prominent in the earlier parts of our sample.


    Cross-sectional momentum (“Momentum”). We follow Asness, Moskowitz, and

Pedersen (2013) and use the 12-month-minus-1-month excess return as momentum

measure. We skip the last month on cross-sectional momentum investing, as this

safeguards against potential liquidity issues that might be especially prominent in the

earlier parts of our sample.


    Value (“Value”). For equity, we use the dividend-to-price ratio (D/P), or dividend yield,

defined as the past 12-month dividend payment divided by the current price. Other

studies typically consider book-to-market value ratios (e.g., Asness, Moskowitz, and

Pedersen, 2013), but these are not well available historically. For government bonds, we

use the real yield, which is defined as the 10-year bond yield over the past 1-year inflation,

as in Asness, Moskowitz, and Pedersen (2013). For currencies, we use an equally-weighted

combination of absolute and relative purchasing power parity (PPP), as both are tested in

previous studies.24 Absolute PPP follows Rogoff (1996) and Taylor (2002). Relative PPP is

a 5-year reversal of the spot rate corrected for inflation differences defined as in Asness,




24 Menkhoff, Sarno, Schmeling, Schrimpf (2017) describe more sophisticated currency value measures such

as productivity, the quality of export goods, net foreign assets, and output gaps, that we ignore due to limited
historical data availability.

                                                      52



                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
Moskowitz, and Pedersen (2013). For commodities, we use the 5-year reversal in spot

prices, as defined in Asness, Moskowitz, and Pedersen (2013).


   Carry (“Carry”). We use the carry definitions as in Koijen, Moskowitz, Pedersen, and

Vrugt (2018). For equity we use the excess implied dividend yield priced into the futures

versus spot contract. This effectively captures the implied excess dividend yield of an

equity index for the month ahead. We splice these series before the existence of equity

futures by means of the following method: We regress the monthly dividend yield implicit

in the total versus price return indices on month dummies using the past five years of

data to predict the dividend yield for the month ahead, and subsequently subtract the

risk-free rate. The average correlation between predicted and actual carry numbers over

the period that both are available is 52%. For government bonds, we take the slope of the

yield curve defined as the 10-year yield minus the short (3-month) yield and omit the

quantitatively smaller roll-down on the interest rate curve because of data limitations.

For currencies, we use the short-term yield differential, which we infer from forwards and

before their availability from short-term money market rates, and for commodities the

slope of the futures curve.

       Return seasonality (“Seasonality”). Our definition follows Keloharju, Linnainmaa,

and Nyberg (2016): We use the return on an asset in a certain month over the prior 20

years (requiring at least 12-months of data). Assets that did relatively well over a

particular month in the past are likely to do relatively well in the same month going

forward. For example, in January the monthly equity index seasonal will buy only those

equity markets which had the best relative performance in January during the past 20

years and shorts those with lowest relative performance.

       Betting-against-beta (“BAB”). This factor postulates that low-beta securities

outperform high-beta securities on a beta-adjusted basis (Frazzini and Pedersen, 2014).

We test this factor by estimating the betas over a 36-month period (requiring at least 12-

                                             53



                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
months of data) relative to the global asset class level portfolio return (we refer to

Appendix A.II for details about the construction of the global asset class portfolio). The

position sizes of each short and long leg are chosen such that the ex-ante betas are the

same, so that the excess return contains as little market effect as possible.



                             A.II Portfolio construction procedure


   After obtaining the factor measures per market in each investment universe we

construct factor investment portfolios at the end of every month in the following manner.

For the trend factor, which is directional in nature, we go long (short) markets in each

asset class when the trend measure is positive (negative), following Moskowitz, Ooi, and

Pedersen (2012). For the other factors, which are all cross-sectional in nature, we rank

the markets in each investment universe based on the factor measure and take a position

equal to the rank minus its cross-sectional average (requiring a minimum of two markets

to be present). This procedure is similar to that used by Asness, Moskowitz, and Pedersen

(2013), Frazzini and Pedersen (2014), and Koijen, Moskowitz, Pedersen, and Vrugt (2018).

(By contrast, Keloharju, Linnainmaa, and Nyberg (2016) construct their return

seasonality strategy via long the top quintile and short the bottom quintile at each point

in time.) Consequently, positions for all factors, except trend, add up to zero at each point

in time:


                                                          𝑵𝒕 + 𝟏
                               𝒘𝒊𝒕 = 𝒛𝒕 ∙ (𝑹𝒂𝒏𝒌(𝑺𝒊𝒕 ) −         ),
                                                            𝟐


   with 𝒘𝒊𝒕 the weight of asset i at time t, 𝑺𝒊𝒕 the factor signal, 𝑵𝒕 the number of assets in

the cross-section, and 𝒛𝒕 a scaling factor to ensure that the portfolio sums to zero.


   Next, we size positions in each market in each asset class by its simple 3-year rolling

volatility estimate or beta estimate (for BAB only), in the same spirit as Asness,


                                              54



                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
Moskowitz, and Pedersen (2013), Frazzini and Pedersen (2014), and Moskowitz, Ooi, and

Pedersen (2012), but fitted to our sample frequency (i.e. monthly data). To prevent undue

impact from extremely low volatility estimates (and hence keep the factor strategy robust

from an investor perspective), especially in the earlier part of our sample, we floor each

volatility (beta) estimate at the maximum of the 10% quantile of volatility (beta) estimates

per asset class or 2.5% (0.25), whichever is greater.


    We subsequently sum the product of position, sizes, and market returns across

markets within an asset class for each date to generate the return on the factor strategy

per asset class. We then adjust the position sizes of each of the factor strategies per asset

class using a 10-year rolling window such that each factor strategy-asset class

combination targets an ex-ante volatility of 10% per annum (an adjustment that implicitly

accounts for non-perfect correlations between markets). Again, we floor this estimate to

prevent extreme leverage. This approach takes an ex-ante view of portfolio construction,

as available in real time. However, our results are not materially different if we simply

scale by in-sample ex-post volatility, as in Koijen, Moskowitz, Pedersen and Vrugt (2018).


    We rebalance the portfolios each month based on the signals and various volatility

estimates. This methodology results in balanced long-short portfolios that are per factor

comparable across asset classes, and which will facilitate combining multiple asset classes

per factor. Subsequently, we construct such ‘Multi Asset’ factor portfolios by taking an

equally-weighted average of factor portfolios within each asset class and applying a

scaling factor equal to the square root of the number of factor series present.25




25 Note that we thereby implicitly assume factor series are uncorrelated across an asset class, an assumption

we make for the sake of simplicity. We realize that this assumption is sometimes at odds with the data, but
we have verified that this choice does not materially impact our conclusions.

                                                     55



                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
                                    A.III Dataset construction

   Financing rates: Our main measure for the financing rates are the 3-month LIBOR

rates (sourced from Bloomberg and Datastream), spliced with (in order of usage)

eurodollar rates from Datastream, 3-month Treasury bill rates and commercial paper

yields from Global Financial Data, short rates from Dimson, Staunton and Marsh,

Macrohistory and for the U.S. with data from Jeremy Siegel. When all are unavailable we

splice with lagged Treasury-bill returns.

   Equities: We source price and return data of equity futures and indices from

Bloomberg, Datastream and Global Financial Data. Our primary source is the futures

from Bloomberg, with gaps filled in by Datastream data, and spliced before futures

inception with index-level data, as in Baltussen, Da, and Van Bekkum (2018). Next, we

backfill these data with equity index level data downloaded from Global Financial Data.

From the same sources we obtain dividend yields. For carry we use the spot, front futures,

and second futures prices. Before we have data on futures, we reconstruct the monthly

‘implied carry’ as if these markets had listed futures using the regression methodology on

the difference between total return and price indices as mentioned in the previous section.

The markets we consider are spread around the globe and cover the major developed

markets with substantial data history.

   Bonds: We source bond futures price and return data from Bloomberg, splice these

with bond index-level data from Datastream, backfilled before inception with Global

Financial Data. From the same sources we obtain yields, and inflation data, the latter

extended where possible with data from Macrohistory. We apply a two-months lag to

inflation numbers to mimic their real-time availability. The markets we consider are the

major developed bond markets around the globe.




                                             56



                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
   Currencies: Forward and spot prices are primarily from Datastream, spliced with

Bloomberg data and Global Financial Data. Before the availability of forward rates, we

use short rates from Bloomberg, Datastream, Global Financial Data, Dimson, Staunton

and Marsh, and for the U.S., data from Jeremy Siegel. Purchasing power parity data is

obtained from the OECD website, and before 1971 with data from Macrohistory. We

include the major developed currency markets (or ‘G10’) in our sample (being USD, GBP,

EUR (before 1999: BEF, DEM, ESP, FRF, ITL, and NLG), JPY, CHF, CAD, AUD, NZD,

SEK, and NOK), all versus the USD.


   Commodities: We source commodity futures price and return data from Bloomberg,

spot prices from Bloomberg and Datastream, both spliced with futures data and spot data

from Global Financial Data. For carry, we use the front futures and second futures prices.

We use the following contracts based on their general usage and liquidity. Futures data

available from GFD extents before 1964 for the following six markets: wheat, corn, cotton,

cocoa, coffee and copper. Further, we spline the futures data of the front contract with

spot data before their inception dates. Due to restrictions on tradability we ignore gold as

a speculative asset during the currency gold standard up to the end of the Bretton Woods

system (which was effectively a gold standard).

   Global asset class portfolios. For equity indices we use the market-value weighted

portfolio of equities, spliced before its data existence in 1926 with an equal-weighted

portfolio across all equity markets included in the sample. For bonds we use a GDP-

weighted global bond portfolio. For currencies, we use an equal-weighted portfolio of all

currencies included in our sample versus the US dollar, and for commodities we also use

an equal-weighted portfolio of all commodities included in our sample.

   Economics: We construct our global recession data from a splicing of the OECD G7

recession indicator from the OECD website (1960-2016), the NBER US recession indicator

from the NBER website (1864-1959), and the contraction of real-GDP from Global

                                             57



                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
Financial Data (1800-1863). Inflation data is described above. We obtain the historical

data on crisis periods from Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff, using their Banks,

Currency, Default, Inflation (BCDI) index, which starts in 1800.26 International

macroeconomic data are from GFD and the OECD. The Chen, Roll and Ross (1986) UTS

factor is constructed as the yield on a more than 10-year maturity government bond minus

the 3-monthT-bill rate. The factor MP is the log difference in industrial production led by

1-month. Expected inflation and unexpected inflation are calculated following Fama and

Gibbons (1984).




26 http://www.reinhartandrogoff.com/data/



                                               58



                  Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
                                       Table A1: A 217 year sample
The table shows the start dates of the individual return series and the value and carry measures of the markets
included in the investment universe. Panel A covers equity indices (“Equities”), 10-year maturity government
bond indices (“Bonds”), commodities (“Commodities”), and currencies (“FX”).


Starting
             Country                    Index              Returns              Value                Carry
date
Equities     U.S.                     S&P500             1800-02-28           1801-01-31          1805-01-31
             U.K.                     FTSE100            1799-12-31           1923-12-31          1799-12-31
             Germany                    DAX              1870-01-31           1869-12-31          1874-12-31
             France                     CAC              1856-01-31           1855-12-31          1860-12-31
             Japan                     TOPIX             1886-01-31           1886-12-31          1890-12-31
             Australia                 ASX200            1882-10-31           1882-10-31          1887-09-30
             Canada                    TSE60             1934-01-31           1934-01-31          1938-12-31
             Switzerland                SMI              1966-02-28           1966-01-31          1971-01-31
             Sweden                     OMX              1902-01-31           1871-12-31          1906-12-31
             Spain                      IBEX             1876-01-31           1875-12-31          1880-12-31
             Italy                      MIB              1925-01-31           1925-01-31          1929-12-31
             the Netherlands            AEX              1951-01-31           1969-07-31          1955-12-31
             Hong Kong              HANGSENG             1969-12-31           1972-12-31          1974-12-31
             South Korea             KOSPI200            1962-02-28           1963-01-31          1967-01-31
Bonds        U.S.                     10Y bond           1799-12-31           1872-02-29          1799-12-31
             U.K.                     10Y bond           1799-12-31           1872-02-29          1799-12-31
             Germany                  10Y bond           1815-03-31           1869-03-31          1815-02-28
             France                   10Y bond           1800-02-28           1872-02-29          1800-01-31
             Japan                    10Y bond           1880-01-31           1872-02-29          1879-12-31
             Australia                10Y bond           1857-06-30           1872-02-29          1857-06-30
             Canada                   10Y bond           1934-03-31           1872-02-29          1934-02-28
             Switzerland              10Y bond           1900-01-31           1893-12-31          1893-12-31
             Sweden                   10Y bond           1853-10-31           1872-02-29          1854-01-31
             Spain                    10Y bond           1881-01-31           1872-02-29          1880-12-31
             Italy                    10Y bond           1862-01-31           1872-02-29          1861-12-31
             the Netherlands          10Y bond           1814-03-31           1872-02-29          1814-02-28
             New Zealand              10Y bond           1923-02-28           1915-10-31          1923-01-31
             Norway                   10Y bond           1822-04-30           1872-02-29          1822-03-31
             Belgium                  10Y bond           1848-09-30           1872-02-29          1848-08-31
             Denmark                  10Y bond           1864-03-31           1872-02-29          1864-02-29




                                                   59



                     Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
Starting date    Country        Index              Returns           Value          Carry
Commodities         -           Soy oil           1911-02-28       1915-07-31     1968-04-30
                    -            Corn             1858-02-28       1862-07-31     1968-06-30
                    -           Cocoa             1799-12-31       1799-12-31     1967-12-31
                    -          Oil (WTI)          1859-10-31       1864-03-31     1983-05-31
                    -         Oil (Brent)         1988-10-31       1974-08-31     1989-02-28
                    -           Cotton            1799-12-31       1799-12-31     1968-02-29
                    -            Gold             1974-01-31       1974-01-31     1975-01-31
                    -           Copper            1800-02-28       1804-07-31     1994-10-31
                    -         Heating Oil         1967-02-28       1971-07-31     1986-06-30
                    -          Gasoline           1986-07-31       1987-07-31     1986-12-31
                    -           Coffee            1825-02-28       1829-07-31     1973-02-28
                    -       Kansas Wheat          1970-03-31       1983-06-30     1970-02-28
                    -         Aluminum            1901-01-31       1905-06-30     1997-08-31
                    -           Cattle            1858-02-28       1862-07-31     1965-04-30
                    -          Live Hog           1858-02-28       1862-07-31     1987-01-31
                    -           Nickel            1901-01-31       1905-06-30     1997-08-31
                    -            Zinc             1840-02-29       1844-07-31     1997-08-31
                    -        Natural Gas          1890-01-31       1894-06-30     1990-05-31
                    -          Soybeans           1913-12-31       1918-05-31     1968-04-30
                    -           Sugar             1960-02-29       1964-07-31     1968-02-29
                    -           Silver            1799-12-31       1799-12-31     1975-01-31
                    -          Soymeal            1929-11-30       1934-04-30     1968-04-30
                    -           Wheat             1799-12-31       1799-12-31     1968-06-30
FX                  -         AUD/USD             1834-12-31       1871-02-28     1834-11-30
                    -         CAD/USD             1934-03-31       1871-02-28     1934-02-28
                    -         CHF/USD             1831-01-31       1871-02-28     1830-12-31
                    -         DEM/USD             1815-03-31       1871-02-28     1815-02-28
                    -         EUR/USD             1999-01-31       1871-02-28     1815-02-28
                    -         GBP/USD             1799-12-31       1871-02-28     1799-12-31
                    -         JPY/USD             1880-01-31       1871-02-28     1879-12-31
                    -         NOK/USD             1819-05-31       1871-02-28     1819-04-30
                    -         NZD/USD             1923-02-28       1920-09-30     1923-01-31
                    -         SEK/USD             1836-03-31       1871-02-28     1836-02-29
                    -         FRF/USD             1800-02-28       1871-02-28     1800-01-31
                    -          ITL/USD            1862-01-31       1871-02-28     1861-12-31
                    -         ESP/USD             1881-01-31       1871-02-28     1880-12-31
                    -         NLG/USD             1814-03-31       1871-02-28     1814-02-28
                    -         BEF/USD             1848-09-30       1871-02-28     1848-08-31




                                             60



                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
                                     Appendix B: Additional results

                    Table B.1: Robustness of global return factors: replication sample
The table summarizes the robustness of the historical performance of the global return factors over the replication
sample to common strategy construction choices made by the original studies. Factors are tested with the following
different implementation methodologies: Tercile long-short portfolios (T1-T3), and no volatility weighting of
individual markets or beta scaling of the BAB portfolios (“No volatility or beta scaling”). Shown are the historical
annualized Sharpe ratios for each factor per asset class and for the equally weighted multi-asset combination
across the four asset classes. The sample starts in January 1981 and ends December 2011 and is at the monthly
frequency. Bold numbers indicate significance at the 5% level.



                                                            Tercile        No volatility or
 Factor               Asset Class        Baseline
                                                           portfolios       beta scaling
 Trend                Equities              0.62              0.62               0.53
 Trend                Bonds                 0.53              0.53               0.49
 Trend                Commodities           0.88              0.88               0.75
 Trend                FX                    0.53              0.53               0.45
 Momentum             Equities              0.61              0.61               0.55
 Momentum             Bonds                 0.29              0.35               0.13
 Momentum             Commodities           0.62              0.64               0.61
 Momentum             FX                    0.23              0.20               0.27
 Value                Equities              0.34              0.35               0.47
 Value                Bonds                 0.29              0.28               0.61
 Value                Commodities           0.22              0.22               0.16
 Value                FX                    0.32              0.39               0.43
 Carry                Equities              0.87              0.72               0.82
 Carry                Bonds                 0.71              0.71               0.66
 Carry                Commodities           0.44              0.53               0.58
 Carry                FX                    0.53              0.50               0.61
 Seasonality          Equities              0.36              0.31               0.37
 Seasonality          Bonds                -0.09              -0.14              -0.14
 Seasonality          Commodities           0.48              0.44               0.42
 Seasonality          FX                    0.00              0.04               -0.04
 BAB                  Equities              0.37              0.36               -0.10
 BAB                  Bonds                 0.36              0.36               -0.11
 BAB                  Commodities           0.01              0.03               -0.04
 BAB                  FX                    0.13              0.13               0.06

 Trend                Multi Asset           1.09              1.09               0.93
 Momentum             Multi Asset           0.78              0.80               0.78
 Value                Multi Asset           0.55              0.58               0.61
 Carry                Multi Asset           1.15              1.12               1.18
 Seasonality          Multi Asset           0.40              0.35               0.49
 BAB                  Multi Asset           0.39              0.39               -0.10




                                                      61



                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
                        Table B.2: Common variation per global return factor
The table shows the individual correlation coefficients of the global return factors. Shown are the monthly
return correlations between each factor-asset class series. The sample starts in January 1800 and ends
December 2016 and is at the monthly frequency.




                                                   62



                  Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
                Table B.3: Different downside beta definitions of global return factors
The table shows the downside betas of the multi-asset combinations of the global return factors using deeper
tail thresholds and equity or bond markets. Panel A shows downside beta versus excess return of the equity
market portfolio. Panel B shows downside beta versus excess return of the bond market portfolio. We depict
downside betas for thresholds of 0, -1, -2 and -3 standard deviations away from zero and the number of
observations below the downside risk threshold. The two panels are sorted on the -3 standard deviation
threshold (-3stdev). The sample starts in January 1800 and ends December 2016 and is at the monthly frequency.



Panel A: Equity market downside risk

 Factor             Asset Class             -0           -1stdev         -2stdev        -3stdev

 Carry              Multi Asset             0.09            0.11             0.18            0.24
 BAB                Multi Asset             0.11            0.12             0.13            0.12
 Seasonal           Multi Asset             0.06            0.08             0.10            0.11
 Value              Multi Asset            -0.04            -0.04            0.03            0.01
 Momentum           Multi Asset             0.01            0.03             0.01            0.01
 Trend              Multi Asset            -0.05            -0.08           -0.11            -0.08

 # observation < equity threshold          1104             218               74              30




Panel B: Bond market downside risk

 Factor             Asset Class             -0           -1stdev         -2stdev        -3stdev
 Value              Multi Asset            -0.01            0.02             0.04            0.04
 Seasonal           Multi Asset             0.03            0.05             0.04            0.03
 Momentum           Multi Asset             0.05            0.07             0.03            0.03
 Trend              Multi Asset             0.03            0.02             0.00            0.02
 Carry              Multi Asset             0.03            0.04            -0.01            0.00
 BAB                Multi Asset            -0.03            -0.03           -0.08            -0.11

 # observations < bond threshold           1018             161               44              20




                                                     63



                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325720
