                                            Carry∗

                    Ralph S.J. Koijen†                 Tobias J. Moskowitz§

                  Lasse Heje Pedersen‡                     Evert B. Vrugt¶


                                Current Version: July 2012
                               Preliminary and Incomplete


                                               Abstract
           A security’s expected return can be decomposed into its “carry” and its expected
       price appreciation, where carry can be measured in advance without an asset pricing
       model. We find that carry predicts returns both in the cross section and time series
       for a variety of different asset classes that include global equities, bonds, currencies,
       and commodities, as well as within US Treasuries, credit, and equity index options.
       This predictability underlies the strong returns to “carry trades” that go long high-
       carry and short low-carry securities, which have been applied almost exclusively
       to currencies. Decomposing carry returns into static and dynamic components, we
       investigate the nature of this predictability across asset classes. We identify “carry
       downturns”—when carry strategies across all asset classes do poorly—and show
       that these episodes coincide with global recessions and liquidity crises.


Keywords: Carry Trade, Stocks, Bonds, Currencies, Commodities, Corporate Bonds, Options,
Global Recessions


   ∗
     We are grateful for helpful comments from Jules van Binsbergen, John Cochrane, Pierre Collin-
Dufresne (discussant), Kent Daniel (discussant), John Heaton, Lubos Pastor, Stijn Van Nieuwerburgh,
Moto Yogo, as well as from seminar participants at the 2012 American Finance Association Conference
meetings (Chicago), Chicago Booth, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the University of Exeter, NOVA
(Portugal), State Street Global Markets, and the fifth annual Paul Woolley Centre conference. We thank
Rui Mano and Adrien Verdelhan for their help with the currency data, and we thank Rui Cui, Laszlo
Jakab, and Minsoo Kim for excellent research assistance.
   †
     University of Chicago, Booth School of Business, and NBER.
http://faculty.chicagobooth.edu/ralph.koijen/.
   ‡
     NYU Stern School of Business, Copenhagen Business School, CEPR, NBER, and AQR Capital
Management. http://people.stern.nyu.edu/lpederse/.
   §
     University of Chicago, Booth School of Business, and NBER.
http://faculty.chicagobooth.edu/tobias.moskowitz/.
   ¶
     VU University Amsterdam, PGO-IM, The Netherlands. http://www.EvertVrugt.com.
    We decompose a security’s expected return into its “carry”, which is observable ex
ante and model-free, and its expected price appreciation. We define an asset’s “carry” as
its expected return assuming its price does not change. For any asset,

               return = carry + E(price appreciation) +unexpected price shock,             (1)
                        |            {z             }
                               expected return

where the expected return is the carry on the asset plus its expected price appreciation.
Using this concept of carry, we unify and extend the set of predictors of returns across a
variety of assets that include global equities, bonds, commodities, and currencies. While
the concept of “carry” has been applied almost exclusively to currencies, where it simply
represents the interest rate differential between two countries, equation (1) shows that
carry is a more general phenomenon that can be applied to any asset.
    We decompose a security’s return into its carry plus its price appreciation across a
broad set of assets. Carry is a model-free measure of a component of expected returns that
can be observed directly, whereas the part of the expected return coming from expected
price appreciation must be estimated from a model. Carry is therefore a measurable
characteristic of a security that we examine in relation to its expected return for a variety
of different assets.
    This simple measure of a component of expected returns provides a unifying framework
for return predictability across asset classes. First, we find that carry is closely and
positively related to total expected returns in each of the major asset classes we study.
Since carry varies over time and across assets, this result implies that expected returns
vary through time and can be predicted by carry. Second, carry provides a unified
framework for understanding well-known predictors of returns across global asset classes.
For instance, we show how carry in bonds is very much related to the slope of the yield
curve used in the bond literature, how carry in commodities is related to the convenience
yield, and how carry is a forward looking measure related to dividend yields in equities. 1
However, carry is also somewhat different than these measures, and we find empirically
that the predictability of carry is sometimes stronger than that of these traditional
predictors. Hence, carry not only provides a unified conceptual framework for thinking
about these traditional predictors, but may also improve upon return predictability within
each asset class. Finally, because carry is a general concept, we also apply it to other asset
markets that have not been extensively studied for return predictability. We examine the
cross-section of US Treasuries across maturities, US credit portfolios, and US equity index
  1
      See Cochrane (2011) and Ilmanen (2011) and references therein.



                                                   2
options across moneyness and find equally strong predictability from our carry measure
in each of these markets, highlighting the generalizability and predictability of carry.
    While we find consistent and ubiquitous evidence that carry predicts total expected
returns, economic theory is ambiguous about the nature of the relation between carry
and total expected returns. For example, an asset’s carry can change even when expected
returns are constant, where carry is being offset by an equal but opposite-signed expected
price appreciation. Carry could also be positively related to expected price appreciation,
amplifying its relation to expected returns. Or, carry could be negatively related to total
expected returns, depending upon the strength and nature of its relation with expected
price appreciation/depreciation. We show empirically that carry is closely and positively
related to expected returns in each of the major asset classes we study, and since carry
varies over time, this result implies that expected returns vary through time and are
predicted by carry.
    We start by analyzing “carry trades” in each asset class, which go long high carry
securities and short low ones. The sample periods we consider differ across asset classes—
the longest (shortest) for commodities (government bonds)—but in all cases the sample
contains more than 20 years of data. We find that a carry trade within each asset class
earns an annualized Sharpe ratio between 0.6 to 0.9, and a portfolio of carry strategies
across all asset classes earns a Sharpe ratio of 1.5. This evidence suggests a strong cross-
sectional link between carry and expected returns, as well as diversification benefits from
applying carry more broadly across different asset classes. The enormous Sharpe ratio
from the portfolio of carry strategies across all asset classes presents a significantly greater
challenge for asset pricing models that already struggle to explain the equity premium and
many stock market strategies such as value and momentum. This Sharpe ratio represents
an even higher hurdle for asset pricing models to meet (see Hansen and Jagannathan
(1997)).
    In addition, by studying multiple asset classes at the same time, we provide some
out-of-sample evidence of existing theories, as well as some guidance for new theories to
be developed on what might be driving carry returns. The common feature we highlight
is that all carry strategies produce high Sharpe ratios. However, the crash risk commonly
documented for currency carry trades (Brunnermeier, Nagel, and Pedersen (2008)) is
largely absent in other asset classes. Moreover, a diversified carry strategy across all asset
classes does not exhibit negative skewness. Hence, theories of carry return premia being
compensation for crash risk do not appear to hold in other asset classes or generally in a
diversified carry strategy.
    The question remains whether other risks inherent in carry strategies extend across


                                               3
asset classes at the same time and whether the high average returns to carry strategies
are compensation for those risks. We examine the extent to which the time-varying
risk premia we find linked to carry are driven by macroeconomic risk (Lucas (1978),
Campbell and Cochrane (1999), Bansal and Yaron (2004)), market liquidity risk (Pastor
and Stambaugh (2003) and Acharya and Pedersen (2005)) or funding liquidity risk
(Brunnermeier and Pedersen (2009), Gârleanu and Pedersen (2011)).
    We decompose the returns to carry in each asset class into a passive and a dynamic
component to better understand the return premia associated with carry. The passive
component is due to being long (short) on average high (low) unconditional expected
return securities and the dynamic component captures how well carry predicts future price
appreciation. We find that the dynamic component contributes to most of the returns
to the equity carry strategy, a little more than half of the returns to the bond carry
strategy, and about half of the returns to the currency and commodity carry strategies.
The substantial dynamic component in every asset class indicates that carry fluctuates
over time and across assets, and that these fluctuations are associated with variation in
expected returns.
    We then consider a series of predictive regressions of future returns of each asset on
its carry, and also find strong evidence of time-varying risk premia, where carry predicts
future returns with a positive coefficient in every asset class. However, the magnitude
of the predictive coefficient differs across asset classes and identifies whether carry is
positively or negatively related to future price appreciation. For equities, carry positively
predicts future price appreciation and thus enhances expected returns beyond the carry
itself. The same is true for bonds, but to a lesser extent. For currencies and commodities,
carry has no additional predictability for future price appreciation. These results are
consistent with those from the static/dynamic decomposition, where asset classes with
the greatest return predictability from carry derive the bulk of their carry trade profits
from dynamic trading.
    We then investigate how carry and the returns to carry vary with macroeconomic
business cycle risk and liquidity risk, and whether the dynamic or static component of
carry returns is more sensitive to these risks. Despite the very high Sharpe ratios of our
carry strategies, we find that they are far from riskless and exhibit sizeable declines that
occur simultaneously across asset classes, for extended periods of time. Examining the
carry strategy’s downside returns across asset classes, we find they coincide with plausibly
bad aggregate states of the global economy. For example, carry returns tend to be low
during global recessions, and this feature appears to hold uniformly across markets.
    Flipping the analysis around, we also identify the worst and best carry return episodes


                                              4
for the global carry strategy applied across all asset classes, which we term carry
“downturns” and “expansions.” We find that the three biggest global carry downturns
(September 1992 to December 1992, May 1997 to September 1998, and November 2007
to January 2009) coincide with major global business cycle and macroeconomic events
and are also characterized by lower levels of global liquidity. Reexamining each individual
carry strategy within each asset class, we further find that individual carry strategies in
each asset class separately do poorly during these times as well. Specifically, we find
that during carry downturns, equity, currency (except Asia) and commodities markets do
poorly, while fixed income markets do well. Carry strategies therefore appear risky since
they are long equity, currency, and commodity markets that decline more during these
episodes and are short the securities that decline less during these times. For fixed income,
the opposite is true as fixed income does well overall during carry downturns. Hence, part
of the return premium earned on average for going long carry may be compensation for
this exposure that generates large losses during extreme times of global recessions and
liquidity crunches.
    Our work relates to the extensive literature on the currency carry trade and the
associated failure of uncovered interest rate parity. 2 Recently, several theories have
been put forth to explain the currency carry trade premium. Brunnermeier, Nagel, and
Pedersen (2008) show that the currency carry trade is exposed to liquidity risk, which
is enhanced by occasional crashes that could lead to slow price adjustments. Bacchetta
and van Wincoop (2010) present a related explanation based on infrequent revisions of
investor portfolio decisions. Lustig and Verdelhan (2007) suggest that the currency carry
trade is exposed to consumption growth risk from the perspective of a U.S. investor and
Farhi and Gabaix (2008) develop a theory of consumption crash risk (see also Lustig,
Roussanov, and Verdelhan (2010)).
    Our study offers a much broader concept of carry that not only captures the currency
carry trades focused on in the literature, but also an array of assets from many different
asset classes. We highlight the characteristics that are unique and common across these
asset classes that may help identify explanations for the carry return premium. For
example, the crashes that characterize currency carry trades and are prominent features
of models seeking to explain currency carry returns, are unique to currencies and are not
exhibited in the carry trades of other asset classes. While this may possibly be linked to
currency carry trades also having the most significant funding liquidity risk exposure, it
also indicates that this feature is not a robust explanation for carry strategies in general
  2
   This literature goes back at least to Meese and Rogoff (1983). Surveys are presented by Froot and
Thaler (1990), Lewis (1995), and Engel (1996).



                                                 5
outside of currencies.
    Our study also relates to the literature on return predictability that seems to be
somewhat segmented across asset classes. In addition to the currency literature above,
the literature on bonds has its own set of predictors, as do commodities, and equities. 3
We show that many of these seemingly different and unrelated variables are in fact related
and can be captured by our simple concept of carry. Moreover, using this unifying concept
of carry, we also identify similar return patterns in markets not previously explored along
this dimension: US Treasuries, US credit, and US equity index options. These additional
asset classes are also shown to be linked to international equities, bonds, currencies, and
commodities through carry. This unifying framework allows us to study carry jointly
across markets to understand how carry returns behave simultaneously across markets
and what features of carry are common across very different asset classes.
    Our paper contributes to a growing literature on global asset pricing that analyzes
mutiple markets jointly.        Asness, Moskowitz, and Pedersen (2012) study cross-
sectional value and momentum strategies within and across individual equity markets,
country equity indices, government bonds, currencies, and commodities simultaneously.
Moskowitz, Ooi, and Pedersen (2012) also document time-series momentum in equity
index, currency, commodity, and bond futures that is distinct from cross-sectional
momentum. Fama and French (2011) study the relation between size, value, and
momentum in global equity markets across four major regions (North America, Europe,
Japan, and Asia Pacific). By jointly studying different markets simultaneously, these
papers help identify and rule out various explanations for the existence of return premia
globally across markets. Our joint approach to carry seeks to do the same, and offers
a new set of related results in markets not previously studied that are all linked by the
simple concept of carry.
    The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section 1 defines carry and
how it relates to expected returns and how we measure carry for each asset class.
Section 2 describes the data and the returns of carry strategies globally across asset
classes. Section 3 analyzes the predictability of carry for returns, including the dynamic
   3
    Studies focusing on international equity returns include Chan, Hamao, and Lakonishok (1991), Griffin
(2002), Griffin, Ji, and Martin (2003), Hou, Karolyi, and Kho (2010), Rouwenhorst (1998), Fama and
French (1998), and further references in Koijen and Van Nieuwerburgh (2011). Studies focusing on
government bonds across countries include Ilmanen (1995) and Barr and Priestley (2004). Studies focusing
on commodities returns include Fama and French (1987), Bailey and Chan (1993), Bessembinder (1992),
Casassus and Collin-Dufresne (2005), Erb and Harvey (2006), Acharya, Lochstoer, and Ramadorai (2010),
Gorton, Hayashi, and Rouwenhorst (2007), Tang and Xiong (2010), and Hong and Yogo (2010). All of
these studies focus on a single asset class or market at a time and ignore how different asset classes or
markets behave simultaneously.



                                                   6
and static components of a carry trade and the relation between carry and expected
price appreciation. Section 4 investigates how carry relates to global business cycle and
liquidity risk. Section 5 applies the concept of carry to asset classes not previously studied.
Section 6 concludes.


1     Understanding Carry: A Characteristic of Any Asset

We decompose the return to any security into the security’s carry and its price
appreciation. The carry return can be thought of as the return to the security assuming
prices stay constant, and is therefore often easy to observe in advance. We detail below the
decomposition of different securities’ returns into carry versus price appreciation across
four diverse asset classes: currencies, equities, bonds, and commodities. Since we examine
futures contracts across these various asset classes, it is instructive to consider the carry
of a futures contract in general, which we can then apply across different asset classes.
    Consider a futures contract that expires in period t + 1 with a current futures price
Ft and spot price of the underlying security St . We first define the return of the futures.
Assume an investor allocates Xt dollars today of capital to finance each futures contract
(where Xt must be at least as large as the margin requirement). Next period, the value
of the margin capital and the futures contract is equal to Xt (1 + rtf ) + Ft+1 − Ft , where rtf
is the risk-free interest rate today that is earned on the margin capital. Hence, the return
per allocated capital over one period is

                                  Xt (1 + rtf ) + Ft+1 − Ft − Xt   Ft+1 − Ft
                 total return
                rt+1          =                                  =           + rtf           (2)
                                                 Xt                   Xt

Therefore, the return in excess of the risk-free rate is

                                                   Ft+1 − Ft
                                          rt+1 =             .                               (3)
                                                      Xt

    The carry Ct of the futures contract is then computed as the futures excess return under
the assumption of a constant spot price from t to t + 1. (The carry can alternatively be
defined as the total return under this assumption.) Given that the futures price expires at
the future spot price (Ft+1 = St+1 ) and the assumption of constant spot prices (St+1 = St ),
we have that Ft+1 = St . Therefore, the carry is

                                                   St − F t
                                            Ct =            .                                (4)
                                                     Xt



                                                    7
For most of our analysis, we compute returns and carry based on a “fully-collateralized”
position, meaning that the amount of capital allocated to the position is equal to the
futures price, Xt = Ft .4
   The carry of a fully-collateralized position is naturally

                                                   St − F t
                                            Ct =            .                                       (5)
                                                      Ft

We can explicitly decompose the (fully-collateralized) return into its expected return plus
an unexpected price shock to gain insight into how carry relates to expected returns.
Using the definition of carry, we can decompose the excess return on the futures as
                                                       
                                                  ΔSt+1
                                 rt+1 = Ct + Et           +ut+1 ,                                   (6)
                                                   Ft
                                        |       {z      }
                                                Et (rt+1 )


where ΔSt+1 = St+1 − St and ut+1 = (St+1 − Et (St+1 ))/Ft is the unexpected price shock.
    We see that the carry Ct is related to the expected return Et (rt+1 ), but the two are
not necessarily the same. The expected return on an asset is comprised of both the
carry on the asset and the expected price appreciation of the asset, which depends on the
specific asset pricing model used to form expectations and the discount rate, including
risk premia, applied to future cash flows. The carry component of a futures contract’s
expected return, however, can be measured in advance in a straightforward “mechanical”
way without the need to specify a model or stochastic discount factor. Put differently,
carry is a simple observable characteristic, which is a component of the expected return on
an asset. Further, carry may be relevant for predicting expected price changes which also
contribute to the expected return on an asset. That is, Ct may also provide information
for predicting Et (ΔSt+1 /Ft ), which we investigate empirically in the paper.
   We next discuss in more detail how to interpret the carry for the asset classes we
study. Applying this general approach to carry for each specific asset class provides a
unifying framework for carry and its link to risk premia. The rest of the paper explores
these relations empirically.


1.1     Currency Carry
We begin with the classic carry trade studied in the literature—the currency carry trade—
which is a trade that goes long high carry currencies and short low carry currencies. For
   4
     However, when considering for instance yield curve positions with fundamentally different levels of
risk, we can choose the position sizes Xt to equalize risk across positions.


                                                    8
a currency, the carry is simply the local interest rate in the corresponding country. For
instance, investing in a currency by literally putting cash into a country’s money market
earns the interest rate if the exchange rate (the “price of the currency”) does not change.
    Most speculators get foreign exchange exposure through a currency forward and our
data on currencies comes from 1-month currency forward contracts (detailed in the next
section). To derive the carry of a currency from forward rates, recall that the no-arbitrage
price of a currency forward contract with spot exchange rate St (measured in number of
local currency per unit of foreign currency), local interest rate rf , and foreign interest
rate rf ∗ is Ft = St (1 + rtf )/(1 + rtf ∗ ). Therefore, the carry of the currency is

                                    St − Ft  f ∗      1
                             Ct =          = rt − rtf          .                           (7)
                                       Ft              1 + rtf

The carry of investing in a forward in the foreign currency is the interest-rate spread,
rf ∗ − rf , adjusted for a scaling factor close to one, (1 + rtf )−1 . The carry is the foreign
interest rate in excess of the local risk-free rate rf because the forward contract is a
zero-cost instrument whose return is an excess return. (The scaling factor simply reflects
that a currency exposure using a futures contract corresponds to buying 1 unit of foreign
currency in the future, which corresponds to buying (1 + rtf )−1 units of currency today.
The scaling factor could be eliminated if we changed the assumed leverage, that is, the
denominator in the carry and return calculations.)
     There is an extensive literature studying the carry trade in currencies. The historical
positive return to currency carry trades is a well known violation of the so-called uncovered
interest-rate parity (UIP). The UIP is based on the simple assumption that all currencies
should have the same expected return, but many economic settings would imply differences
in expected returns across countries. For instance, differences in expected currency returns
could arise from differences in consumption risk (Lustig and Verdelhan (2007)), crash risk
(Brunnermeier, Nagel, and Pedersen (2008), Burnside, Eichenbaum, Kleshchelski, and
Rebelo (2006)), liquidity risk (Brunnermeier, Nagel, and Pedersen (2008)), and country
size (Hassan (2011)), where a country with more exposure to consumption or liquidity
risk could have both a high interest rate and a cheaper exchange rate.
     While we investigate the currency carry trade and its link to macroeconomic and
liquidity risks, the goal of our study is to investigate the role of carry more broadly across
asset classes and identify the characteristics of carry returns that are common and unique
to each asset class. As we show in the next section, some of the results in the literature
pertaining to currency carry trades, such as crashes, are not evident in all other asset
classes, while other characteristics, such as business cycle variation, are more common to


                                              9
carry trades in general across all asset classes.


1.2     Global Equity Carry
For equities, carry is simply the expected dividend yield. If stock prices and dividends do
not change, then the return on equities comes solely from dividends—hence, carry is the
dividend yield today.
    We implement a global equity carry strategies via futures, which leads to another
measure of carry. While we do not always have an equity futures contract with exactly
one month to expiration, we interpolate between the two nearest-to-maturity futures
prices to compute consistent series of synthetic one-month equity futures prices.
    The no-arbitrage price of a futures contract is Ft = St (1 + rtf ) − EtQ (Dt+1 ), where the
expected divided payment D is computed under the risk-neutral measure Q, and rtf is the
risk-free rate at time t in the country of the equity index. 5 Substituting this expression
back into equation (5), the carry for an equity future can be rewritten as
                                                                         !
                                    S t − Ft         EtQ (Dt+1 )             St
                               Ct =          =                   − rtf          .                         (8)
                                        Ft                St                 Ft

In words, the carry of an equity futures contract is simply the expected dividend yield
minus the (local) risk-free rate, multiplied by a scaling factor which is close to one, St /Ft .
    To further see the relationship between carry and expected returns, consider Gordon’s
growth model for the price St of a stock with dividend growth g and expected return E(R),
St = D/(E(R) − g). This standard equity pricing equation implies that the expected
return is the dividend yield plus the expected dividend growth, E(R) = D/S + g. Or,
the expected return is the carry, D/S, plus the expected price appreciation arising from
the expected dividend growth, g. If the dividend yield varies independently of g, then
the dividend yield is clearly a signal of expected returns. If, on the other hand, dividend
growth is high when the dividend yield is low, then the dividend yield would not necessarily
predict expected returns, as the two components of E(R) would offset each other.
    If expected returns do vary, then it is natural to expect carry to be positively related
to expected returns: If a stock’s expected return increases while dividends stay the same,
then its price drops and its dividend yield increases. Hence, a high expected return
leads to a high carry. Indeed, this discount-rate mechanism follows from standard macro-
   5
    Binsbergen, Brandt, and Koijen (2012) and Binsbergen, Hueskes, Koijen, and Vrugt (2010) study
the asset pricing properties of dividend futures prices, EtQ (Dt+n ), n = 1, 2, . . . , in the US, Europe, and
Japan.



                                                     10
finance models, such as Bansal and Yaron (2004), Campbell and Cochrane (1999), Gabaix
(2009), Wachter (2010), and models of time-varying liquidity risk premia (Acharya and
Pedersen (2005), Brunnermeier and Pedersen (2009), Gârleanu and Pedersen (2011)). We
investigate in the next section the relation between carry and expected returns for each
asset class and whether these relations are consistent with theory. We also discuss in
Section 5 the link with the standard dividend yield that sums a year of dividends and
divides it by the current price (Fama and French (1988)) and our measure for the equity
carry.


1.3    Commodity Carry
If you make a cash investment in a commodity by literally buying and holding the physical
commodity itself, then the carry is the convenience yield or net benefits of use of the
commodity in excess of storage costs. While the actual convenience yield is hard to
measure (and may depend on the specific investor), the carry of a commodity futures or
forward can be easily computed. Similar to the dividend yield on equities, where the actual
dividend yield may be hard to measure since future dividends are unknown in advance, the
expected dividend yield can be backed out from futures prices on equities easily. Indeed,
one of the reasons we employ futures contracts for the part of our empirical analysis is to
easily and consistently compute the carry across asset classes. The no-arbitrage price of
a commodity futures contract is Ft = St (1 + rtf − δ), where δ is the convenience yield in
excess of storage costs. Hence, the carry for a commodity futures contract is,

                                  St − F t               1
                           Ct =            = δ − rf               ,                     (9)
                                     Ft               1 + rtf − δ

where the commodity carry is the convenience yield of the commodity in excess of the
risk free rate (adjusted for a scaling factor that is close to one).
    To compute the carry from equation (9), we need data on the current futures price
Ft and current spot price St . However, commodity spot markets are often highly illiquid
and clean spot price data on commodities is often unavailable. To combat this data issue,
instead of examining the “slope” between the spot and futures prices, we consider the
slope between two futures prices of different maturity. Specifically, we consider the price
of the nearest-to-maturity commodity futures contract with the price of the next-nearest
available futures contract on the same commodity. For example, suppose that the nearest
to maturity futures price is Ft1 with T1 months to maturity and the second futures price
is Ft2 with T2 months to maturity, where T2 > T1 . In general, the no-arbitrage futures


                                              11
price can be written as FtTi = St (1 + (rf − δ)Ti ). Thus, the carry of holding the second
contract can be computed by assuming that its price will converge to Ft1 after T2 − T1
months, that is, assuming that the price of a T1 -month futures stays constant:

                                          Ft1 − Ft2                S
                                                                 f     t
                                 Ct =                  =   δ − r t       ,                             (10)
                                        Ft2 (T2 − T1 )               Ft2

where we divide by T2 −T1 to compute the carry on a per-month basis. Following Equation
(10), we can simply use data from the futures markets—specifically, the slope of the futures
curve—to get a measure of carry that captures the convenience yield. 6


1.4     Global Fixed Income Carry
Calculating carry for bonds is perhaps the most difficult since there are several reasonable
ways to define carry for fixed income instruments. For example, consider a bond with T -
months to maturity, coupon payments of D, par value Pˉ , price PtT , and yield to maturity
ytT . There are several different ways to define the carry of this bond. Assuming that its
price stays constant, the carry of the bond would be the current yield, D/PtT , if there is a
coupon payment over the next time period, otherwise it is zero. However, since a bond’s
maturity changes as time passes, it is not natural to define carry based on the assumption
that the bond price stays constant (especially for zero-coupon bonds).
     A more compelling definition of carry arises under the assumption that the bond’s
yield to maturity stays the same over the next time period. The carry could then be
defined as the yield to maturity (regardless of whether there is a coupon payment). To
see this, note that the price today of the bond is,
                                  X
                    PtT =                        D(1 + ytT )−(i−t) + Pˉ (1 + ytT )−(T −t) ,            (11)
                            i∈{coupon dates>t}


and if we assume that the yield to maturity stays the same, then the same corresponding
                                                     T −1
formula holds for the bond next period as well, Pt+1      . Thus, the value of the bond
   6
     Another interpretation of Equation (10) is as follows: Derive synthetic spot and 1-month futures
prices by linearly interpolating the two available futures prices, F 1 and F 2 , and then compute the 1-
month carry as before using these synthetic prices. It is easy to see that this yields the same expression
for carry as equation (10). In principal, we could also compute carry in other asset classes using this
method based on two points on the futures curve (i.e., not rely on spot prices). However, since spot price
data is readily available in the other asset classes, this is unnecessary. Moreover, we find that the carry
calculated from the futures curve in the other asset classes is nearly identical to the carry computed from
spot and futures prices in those asset classes. Hence, using the futures curve to calculate carry appears to
be equivalent to using spot-futures price differences, justifying our computation for carry in commodities.




                                                       12
including coupon payments next period is,
                                           X
   T −1
 Pt+1   +D∙1[t+1∈{coupon dates}] =                        D(1+ytT )−(i−t−1) + Pˉ (1+ytT )−(T −t−1) . (12)
                                     i∈{coupon dates>t}


Hence, the carry is
                               T −1
                             Pt+1   + D ∙ 1[t+1∈{coupon dates}] − PtT
                      Ct =                                            = ytT .                       (13)
                                               PtT

The carry on a funded position (the carry in excess of the short-term risk-free rate) is
then the term spread:
                                    Ct = ytT − rtf .                                (14)

    Perhaps the most compelling definition of carry is the return on the bond if the entire
                                                          τ
term structure of interest rates stays constant, i.e., yt+1  = ytτ for all maturities τ . In this
case, the carry is the bond return assuming that the yield to maturity changes from ytT
to ytT −1 . In this case, the carry (in terms of excess returns) is

                                  T −1
                               Pt+1    + D ∙ 1[t+1∈coupon dates] − PtT
                      Ct =                         T
                                                                        − rtf
                                                 Pt
                                             T −1 T −1         T −1 T
                                           P     (y ) − Pt+1       (yt )
                           =   ytT − rtf + t+1 t           T
                                                                                                    (15)
                                                         Pt
                                                              
                           ∼
                           =     T     f
                               yt − rt −D    mod    T −1
                                                  yt − ytT
                               | {z } |           {z          }
                                  slope            roll down


where the latter approximation involving the modified duration, Dmod , yields a simple way
to think of carry. Intuitively, equation (15) shows that if the term structure of interest
rates is constant, then the carry is the bond yield plus the “roll down,” which captures
the price increase due to the fact that the bond rolls down the yield curve. As the bond
rolls down the yield curve, the yield changes from ytT to ytT −1 , resulting in a return which
is minus the yield change times the modified duration.
    To be consistent with the other asset classes, we would like to compute the bond carry
using futures data. Unfortunately, liquid bond futures contracts are only traded in a
few countries and, when they exist, there are often very few contracts (often only one).
Further complicating matters is the fact that different bonds have different coupon rates
and the futures price is subject to cheapest-to-deliver options. To simplify matters and
create a broader global cross-section, we derive synthetic futures prices based on data on




                                                   13
zero-coupon rates as follows. 7
    We want to compute the carry of a synthetic one-month futures. Hence, consider
a futures contract that gives the obligation to buy a 9-year-and-11-months zero-coupon
bond in one month from now. The current price of this one-month futures is Ft =
(1 + rtf )/(1 + yt10Y )10 , where yt10Y is the current yield on a 10-year zero-coupon bond.
(This expression for the futures price follows from that fact that the futures payoff can be
replicated by buying a 10-year bond.) The current “spot price” is naturally the current
price of a 9-year-and-11-month zero-coupon bond, St = 1/(1 + yt9Y 11M )9+11/12 . Hence, the
carry using the standard formula is given by

                                  S t − Ft   1/(1 + yt9Y 11M )9+11/12
                           Ct =            =                           − 1.                          (16)
                                      Ft     (1 + rtf )/(1 + yt10Y )10

While we compute the carry using this exact formula, we can get an intuitive expression
using the same approximation as before

                             Ct ≃ yt10Y − rtf − Dmod (yt10Y − yt9Y 11M ).                            (17)

Hence, the futures-based carry calculation corresponds to the assumption that the entire
term structure of interest rates stays constant.


1.5     Carry: A Broad Framework
We define carry as the return if the nominal price stays the same. However, as is the
case for bond carry, it is sometimes necessary to decide which price is assumed constant
(e.g., the price of the bond or the yield curve?). Further, one could alternatively compute
carry as the return if the real (i.e., inflation-adjusted) price stays constant. For example
for currencies, if we define carry as the return if the real exchange rate stays the same,
it is straightforward to see that a currency’s carry is its real interest rate. Hence, carry
can be viewed broadly as a framework for computing a simple, observable, measure of the
income an investor receives if market conditions stay constant, however defined. We focus
on a consistent definition of carry based on futures prices for all asset classes because it
mitigates estimation issues, but we provide several other examples in Section 5 based on
different cross-sections of assets that do not use futures contracts.
    Appendix A also shows that the same carry measures can be used for foreign-
denominated futures contracts assuming the currency risk is hedged, as we do empirically.
   7
    For countries with actual, valid bond futures data, the correlation between actual futures returns and
our synthetic futures returns is greater than 0.95.


                                                   14
1.6    The Carry of a Portfolio
We compute the carry of a portfolio of securities as follows. Consider a set of securities
indexed by i = 1, ..., Nt , where Nt is the number of available securities at time t. Security
i has a carry of Cti computed at the end of month t and that is related to the return
 i
rt+1 over the following month t + 1. Letting the portfolio weight of security i be wti ,
the return of the portfolio is naturally the weighted sum of the returns on the securities,
       P
rt+1 = i wti rt+1
              i
                  . Similarly, since carry is also a return (under the assumption of no price
changes), the carry of the portfolio is simply computed as,
                                                         X
                                    Ctportf olio =            wti Cti .                   (18)
                                                         i


1.7    Defining a Carry Trade Portfolio
A carry trade is a trading strategy that goes long high-carry securities and shorts low-carry
securities. There are various ways of choosing the exact carry-trade portfolio weights, but
our main results are robust across a number of portfolio weighting schemes. One way to
construct the carry trade is to rank assets by their carry and go long the top 20, 25 or
30% of securities and short the bottom 20, 25 or 30%, with equal weights applied to all
securities within the two groups, and ignore (e.g., place zero weight on) the securities in
between these two extremes. Another method, which we primarily focus on, is a carry
trade specification that takes a position in all securities weighted by their carry ranking.
Specifically, the weight on each security i at time t is given by
                                                                          
                                                          Nt + 1
                              wti = zt       rank(Cti ) −                      ,          (19)
                                                                   2

where the scalar zt ensures that the sum of the long and short positions equals 1 and −1,
respectively. This weighting scheme is similar to that used by Asness, Moskowitz, and
Pedersen (2012) and Moskowitz, Ooi, and Pedersen (2012), who show that the resulting
portfolios are highly correlated with other zero-cost portfolios that use different weights.
   By construction, the carry trade portfolio always has a positive carry itself. The
carry of the carry trade portfolio is equal to the weighted-average carry of the high-carry
securities minus the average carry among the low-carry securities:
                                         X                    X
                      Ctcarry trade =             wti Cti −            |wti |Cti   > 0.   (20)
                                         wti >0               wti <0


Hence, the carry of the carry trade portfolio depends on the cross-sectional dispersion of

                                                    15
carry among the constituent securities.


2     Carry Trade Returns Across Asset Classes
Following Equation (19), we construct carry trade portfolio returns for each asset class
as well as across all the asset classes we examine. First, we briefly describe our sample
of securities in each asset class and how we construct our return series, then we consider
the carry trade portfolio returns within and across the asset classes and examine their
performance over time.


2.1    Data and Summary Statistics
Appendix B details the data sources we use for the country equity index futures, currency
forward rates, commodity futures, and synthetic bond futures returns (as described
above). Table 1 presents summary statistics for returns and the carry for each of the
instruments we use, including the starting date for each of the series.
    There are 13 country equity index futures: the U.S. (S&P 500), Canada (S&P TSE
60), the UK (FTSE 100), France (CAC), Germany (DAX), Spain (IBEX), Italy (FTSE
MIB), The Netherlands (EOE AEX), Norway (OMX), Switzerland (SMI), Japan (Nikkei),
Hong Kong (Hang Seng), and Australia (S&P ASX 200).
    There are 20 foreign exchange forward contracts covering the period November 1983
to February 2011 (with some currencies starting as late as February 1997 and the Euro
beginning in February 1999). We also include the U.S. as one of the countries for which
the currency return is, by definition, equal to zero.
    The commodities sample covers 24 commodities futures dating as far back as January
1980 (through February 2011). Not surprisingly, commodities exhibit the largest cross-
sectional variation in mean and standard deviation of returns since they contain the most
diverse assets, covering commodities in metals, energy, and agriculture/livestock.
    Finally, the fixed income sample covers 10 government bonds starting as far back as
November 1991, but beginning in January 1995 for most countries, through February
2011. Bonds exhibit the least cross-sectional variation across markets, but there is still
substantial variation in average returns and volatility across the markets.


2.2    Carry Trade Portfolio Returns within an Asset Class
For each global asset class, we construct a carry strategy that invests in high-carry
securities while short selling low-carry instruments, where each instrument is weighted

                                           16
by the rank of its carry and the portfolio is rebalanced each month end following
equation (19).
    We consider two measures of carry: (i) The “current carry”, which is measured at
the end of each month, and (ii) “carry1-12”, which is a moving average of the current
carry over the past 12 month ends (including the most recent one). We include carry1-12
because of potential seasonal components that can arise in calculating carry for certain
assets. For instance, the equity carry over the next month depends on whether most
companies are expected to pay dividends in that specific month, and countries differ
widely in their dividend calendar (e.g., Japan vs. US). Current carry will tend to go long
an equity index if that country is in its dividend season, whereas carry1-12 will go long an
equity index that has a high overall dividend yield for that year regardless of what month
those dividends were paid. In addition, some commodity futures have strong seasonal
components that are also eliminated by using carry1-12. Averaging over the past year
helps eliminate the potential influence of these seasonal components. Fixed income (the
way we compute it) and currencies do not exhibit much seasonal carry pattern, but we
also consider strategies based on both their current carry and carry1-12 for robustness.
Table 1 also reports the mean and standard deviation of the carry for each asset, which
range considerably across assets within an asset class (especially commodities) and across
asset classes.
    Table 2 reports the annualized mean, standard deviation, skewness, excess kurtosis,
and Sharpe ratio of the carry strategies within each asset class. For comparison, the
same statistics are reported for the returns to a passive long investment in each asset
class, which is just an equal weighted portfolio of all the securities in each asset class.
The sample period for equities is March 1988 to February 2011, for fixed income it is
November 1991 to February 2011, for commodities it is February 1980 to February 2011,
and for currencies it is November 1983 to February 2011.
    Table 2 indicates that all the carry strategies in all asset classes have significant positive
returns. Using current carry, the average returns range from 5.1% for the fixed income
trade to 11.7% for the commodity carry trade. Using carry1-12, the average returns
range from 3.0% for the fixed income carry trade to 13% for the commodity carry trade.
Sharpe ratios for the current carry range from 0.62 in commodities to 0.93 for equities and
for carry1-12 they range from 0.48 in bonds to 0.67 in commodities. The current carry
portfolio exhibits stronger performance than carry1-12 for equities, 8 bonds, and slightly
for currencies, which may reflect that more timely data provides more predictive power
   This suggests that expected returns may vary over the dividend cycle, which can potentially be tested
   8

more directly using dividend futures as in Binsbergen, Hueskes, Koijen, and Vrugt (2010).



                                                  17
for returns. However, for commodities, carry1-12 performs better, which may be due to
the strong seasonal variation in commodity carry that is not necessarily related to returns.
    The robust performance of carry strategies across asset classes indicates that carry is
an important component of expected returns. The previous literature focuses on currency
carry trades, finding similar results to those in Table 2. However, we find that a carry
strategy works at least as well in other asset classes, too. In fact, the current carry
strategy performs markedly better in equities and fixed income than currencies, and the
carry1-12 strategy performs slightly better in equities and commodities than currencies.
Hence, carry is a broader concept that can be applied to many assets in general and is
not unique to currencies. 9
    Both the current carry and carry1-12 portfolios also seem to outperform a passive
investment in each asset class. For example, in equities, the Sharpe ratio of a passive
long position in all equity futures is only 0.37, compared to 0.93 for the current carry
strategy and 0.61 for the carry1-12 strategy. In commodities, the passive portfolio delivers
only a 0.10 Sharpe ratio, while the carry portfolios achieve 0.62 and 0.67 Sharpe ratios,
respectively. Consistent with the literature, currency carry strategies also outperform a
passive investment in currencies. For fixed income, the carry strategy appears to perform
about the same as a passive long investment. However, these comparisons are misleading
because the beta of a carry strategy is typically close to zero. As we show below, the
alphas of the carry strategies with respect to these passive benchmarks are all consistently
and significantly positive, even for fixed income.
    Examining the higher moments of the carry trade returns in each asset class, we find
the strong negative skewness associated with the currency carry trade documented by
Brunnermeier, Nagel, and Pedersen (2008). However, negative skewness is not a feature
of carry trades in other asset classes, such as equities and fixed income. Commodity carry
portfolios seem to exhibit some negative skewness, but not as extreme as currencies.
Hence, the “crashes” associated with currency carry trades do not seem to be as strong a
feature in carry trades in other asset classes. Thus, explanations for the return premium
to carry trades in currencies that rely on crash risk may not be suitable for explaining
return premia to carry in other asset classes. All carry portfolios in all asset classes seem
to exhibit excess kurtosis, however.
    Figure 2 plots the cumulative monthly returns to each carry strategy in each asset
class over their respective sample periods. The currency carry trade “crashes” are evident
on the graphs, but there is less evidence for sudden crashes among carry strategies in
  9
   Several recent papers also study carry strategies for commodities in isolation, see for instance
Szymanowska, de Roon, Nijman, and van den Goorbergh (2011) and Yang (2011).



                                                18
other asset classes. In addition, the graphs also plot the cumulative carry itself, which
represents the component of the carry portfolios’ expected return that is observable ex ante
and would comprise the total expected return if underlying spot prices remained constant.
Hence, the difference between the two lines on each graph represents the component of
expected returns to the carry trade that come from price appreciation. In the next section,
we investigate in more detail the relationship between carry, expected price changes, and
total expected returns.


2.3    Diversified Carry Trade Portfolio
Table 2 also reports the performance of a diversified carry strategy across all asset classes,
which is constructed as the equal-volatility-weighted average of carry portfolio returns
across the asset classes. Specifically, we weight each asset classes’ carry portfolio by the
inverse of its sample volatility so that each carry strategy in each asset class contributes
roughly equally to the total volatility of the diversified portfolio. This procedure is
similar to that used by Asness, Moskowitz, and Pedersen (2012) and Moskowitz, Ooi,
and Pedersen (2012) to combine returns from different asset classes with very different
volatilities. Since commodities have roughly two to three times the volatility of fixed
income, a simple equal-weighted average of carry returns across asset classes will have its
variation dominated by commodity carry risk and under-represented by bond carry risk.
Volatility-weighting the asset classes into a diversified portfolio gives each asset class more
equal representation.
    As the bottom of Table 2 reports, the diversified carry trade based on the current carry
has a remarkable Sharpe ratio of 1.49 per annum and the diversified carry1-12 portfolio
has an impressive 0.95 Sharpe ratio. A diversified passive long position in all asset classes
produces only a 0.75 Sharpe ratio. These numbers suggest carry is a strong predictor of
expected returns globally across asset classes. Moreover, the substantial increase in Sharpe
ratio for the diversified carry portfolio relative to the individual carry portfolio Sharpe
ratios in each asset class, indicates that the correlations of the carry trades across asset
classes are quite low. Hence, sizeable diversification benefits are obtained by applying
carry trades universally across asset classes.
    Table 3 reports the correlations of carry trade returns across the four asset classes.
Except for the correlation between currency carry and bond carry, the correlations are
all very close to zero, and even for bonds and currencies, the correlation of their carry
returns is only 23%. The low correlations among carry strategies in other asset classes
not only lowers the volatility of the diversified portfolio substantially, but also mutes the


                                              19
negative skewness associated with currency carry trades and mitigates the excess kurtosis
associated with all carry trades. In fact, the negative skewness and excess kurtosis of
the diversified portfolio of carry trades is smaller than those of the passive long position
diversified across asset classes. Hence, the diversification benefits applying carry across
asset classes seem to be larger than those obtained from investing passively long in the
same asset classes. The magnitude of the Sharpe ratios of the diversified carry strategy
presents a daunting challenge for current asset pricing models that already struggle to
explain the significantly smaller Sharpe ratios typically examined within a single asset
class (e.g., currencies). A diversified carry portfolio across asset classes is also less prone
to crashes, which also challenges risk-based stories.


2.4    Risk-Adjusted Performance and Exposure to Other Factors
Table 4 reports regression results for each carry portfolio’s returns in each asset class on
a set of other portfolio returns or factors.
     For both the current carry and carry1-12 portfolios in each asset class, we regress the
time series of their returns on the passive long portfolio returns (equal-weighted average of
all securities) in each asset class, the value and momentum “everywhere” factors of Asness,
Moskowitz, and Pedersen (2012), which are diversified portfolios of value and cross-
sectional momentum strategies in global equities, equity indices, bonds, commodities,
and currencies, and the time-series momentum (TSMOM) factor of Moskowitz, Ooi, and
Pedersen (2012) which is a diversified portfolio of time-series momentum strategies in
futures contracts in the same asset classes we examine here for carry.
     Panel A of Table 4 reports both the intercepts or alphas from these regressions as well
as the betas on the various factors to evaluate the exposure of the carry trade returns to
these other known strategies or factors. The first two columns of each panel of Table 4
report the results from regressing the carry trade portfolio returns in each asset class
(both for the current carry, “CC,” and for the carry1-12, “C1-12,” strategies) on the
equal-weighted passive index for that asset class (e.g., CAPM for the asset class). The
alphas for every carry strategy in every asset class are positive and statistically significant,
indicating that in every asset class a carry strategy provides abnormal returns above and
beyond simple passive exposure to that asset class. Put differently, carry trades offer
excess returns over the “local” market return in each asset class. Examining the betas of
the carry portfolios on the local market index for each asset class, we see that the betas
are not significantly different from zero. Hence, carry strategies provide sizeable return
premia without much market exposure to the asset class itself. The last two rows of each


                                              20
panel of Table 4 report the R2 from the regression and the information ratio, IR, which
is the alpha divided by residual volatility from the regression, of each carry strategy. The
IRs are quite large, reflecting high risk-adjusted returns to carry strategies even after
accounting for its exposures to standard risk factors.
    Looking at the value and momentum everywhere and time-series momentum factor
exposures we find mixed evidence across the asset classes. For instance, in equities,
we find that carry strategies have a positive value exposure, but no momentum or
time-series momentum exposure. The positive exposure to value reduces the alpha
slightly, especially for carry1-12, but the remaining alpha and information ratio are still
significantly positive. In commodities, a carry strategy loads significantly negatively on
value and significantly positively on cross-sectional momentum, but exhibits little relation
to time-series momentum. The exposure to value and cross-sectional momentum captures
a significant fraction of the variation in commodity carry’s returns, as the R2 jumps from
less than 1% to more that 25% when the value and momentum everywhere factors are
included in the regression. However, because the carry trade’s loadings on value and
momentum are of opposite sign, the impact on the alpha of the commodity carry strategy
is small since the exposures to these two positive return factors offset each other. The
alphas diminish by about 20-30 basis points per month, but remain economically large
and statistically significant. Finally, for both fixed income and currency carry strategies,
there is no reliable loading of the carry strategies’ returns on value, momentum, or time-
series momentum (except current carry for bonds seems to have a negative loading on
TSMOM), and consequently the alphas of bond and currency carry portfolios remain
significant.
    The regression results in Table 4 only highlight the average exposure of the carry
trade returns to these factors. However, these may mask significant dynamic exposures to
these factors. To see if the risk exposures vary significantly over time, Figure 3 examines
the variation over time in the carry portfolio’s returns to the market by plotting the
three-year rolling correlations (using monthly returns data) of each carry trade’s returns
with the passive portfolio for that asset class. As the figure shows, the carry trade’s
correlation to the market in all asset classes varies significantly over time, perhaps most
evident for currencies. Although on average the market exposure of each carry trade is
insignificantly different from zero, there are times when the carry trade in every asset class
has significant positive exposure to the market and other times when it has significant
negative market exposure. We further explore the dynamics of carry trade positions in
the following section.



                                             21
3     How Does Carry Relate to Expected Returns?
In this section we investigate further how carry relates to expected returns and the nature
of carry’s predictability for future returns. We begin by decomposing carry trades into
static and dynamic components.


3.1    Does the Market Take Back Part of the Carry?
The significant returns to the carry trade indicate that carry is indeed a signal of expected
returns. However, to better understand the relation between carry and expected returns
it is instructive to go back to equation (1), which decomposes expected returns into carry
and expected price appreciation. To do this formally, we run the following panel regression
for each asset class:
                                   i
                                  rt+1 = ai + bt + cCti + εit+1 ,                        (21)

where ai is an asset-specific intercept (or fixed effect), bt are time fixed effects, Cti is the
carry on asset i at time t, and c is the coefficient of interest that measures how well carry
predicts returns.
    To interpret this regression, we note that there are several interesting hypotheses
to consider. First, c = 0 means that carry does not predict returns, consistent with
a generalized notion of the “expectations hypothesis.” Second, c = 1 means that the
expected return moves one-for-one with carry. While c = 0 means that the total return
behaves like a random walk, c = 1 means that the price (not including carry) is a random
walk. Third, c ∈ (0, 1) means that a high carry is associated with a low expected price
appreciation such that the market “takes back” part of the carry, but not all. Fourth,
c > 1 means that a high carry is associated with a high expected price appreciation so
that you get your carry and price appreciation too. Lastly, c < 0 implies that the price
appreciation/depreciation more than offsets the effect of the carry.
    Table 5 reports the results for each asset class, for current carry and carry1-12, and
with and without fixed effects. Without asset and time fixed effects, c represents the
total predictability of returns from carry from both its passive and dynamic components.
Including time fixed effects removes the time-series predictable return component coming
from general exposure to assets at a given point in time. Similarly, including asset-
specific fixed effects removes the predictable return component of carry coming from
passive exposure to assets with different unconditional average returns. By including
both asset and time fixed effects, the slope coefficient c in equation (21) represents the
predictability of returns to carry coming purely from variation in carry.


                                              22
    The results in Table 5 indicate that carry is a strong predictor of expected returns, with
consistently positive and statistically significant coefficients on carry, save for the current
carry commodity strategy, which may be tainted by strong seasonal effects in carry for
commodities. The carry1-12 strategy, which mitigates seasonal effects, is a ubiquitously
positive and significant predictor of returns, even in commodities.
    Focusing on the magnitude of the predictive coefficient, Table 5 shows that the point
estimate of c is greater than one for equities and fixed income, and smaller than one
for commodities and around one for currencies (depending on whether fixed effects are
included). These results imply that for equities, for instance, when the dividend yield is
high, not only is an investor rewarded by directly receiving large dividends (relative to
the price), but also equity prices tend to appreciate more than usual. Hence, expected
stock returns appear to be comprised of both high dividend yields and additionally high
expected price appreciation. Similarly for fixed income securities, buying a 10-year bond
with a high carry provides returns from the carry itself (i.e., from the yield spread over
the short rate and from rolling down the yield curve), and, further, yields tend to drop,
not rise, leading to additional price appreciation. The is somewhat surprising as the
expectations hypothesis suggests that a high term spread implies short and long rates
are expected to increase, but this is not what we find. However, these results must
be interpreted with caution as the predictive coefficient is not statistically significantly
different from one in all but a few cases.
    For currencies, the predictive coefficient is close to one, which means that high-interest
currencies neither depreciate, nor appreciate, on average. Hence, the currency investor
earns the interest-rate differential on average. This finding goes back to Fama (1984),
who ran these regressions slightly differently. Fama (1984)’s well-known result is that
the predictive coefficient has the “wrong” sign relative to uncovered interest rate parity,
which corresponds to a coefficient larger than one in our regression.
    For commodities, the predictive coefficient is significantly less than one, so that when
a commodity has a high spot price relative to its futures price, implying a high carry, the
spot price tends to depreciate on average, thus lowering the realized return on average
below the carry.
    Looking back at Figure 2, which plots the carry trades’ cumulative returns and their
cumulative carries, the difference between the two return series highlights the relation
between carry and expected returns. Since carry is similar to a return (namely, it is the
hypothetical return if the price does not change), the cumulative carry can be computed
and interpreted just like any cumulative return. For simplicity, we compute the cumulative
returns and cumulative carry by summation: for instance, the cumulative carry at time t


                                              23
                P
is computed as tτ =1 Cτ . Consistent with the regression results in Table 5, the cumulative
carry is greater than the cumulative return for equities and fixed income, carry is similar
to returns for currencies, and carry is substantially lower than returns for commodities.
These plots indicate that carry “under-predicts” returns on average in equities and fixed
income, “over-predicts” in commodities, and neither really over- or under-predicts in
currencies.
    We can also examine how the predictive coefficient changes across the different
regression specifications with and without fixed effects to see how the predictability of
carry changes once the passive exposures are removed. For example, the coefficient on
carry for equities drops very little when including asset and time fixed effects, which
is consistent with the dynamic component to equity carry strategies dominating the
predictability of returns. We also see that currency carry predictability is cut roughly
in half when the fixed effects are included, implying that the dynamic component of the
currency carry strategy contributes to about half of the return predictability.
    Finally, for robustness, Table C in the appendix shows the results from similar
predictive regressions where the value of each security’s carry is replaced by its cross-
sectional rank (scaled by the number of securities Nt ) to rely less on the magnitude of the
carry. More specifically, we consider the following panel regression:

                             i                    rank(Cti )
                            rt+1 = a i + bt + c              + εit+1 .                 (22)
                                                     Nt

The predictive power of these rank-based carry weights is even stronger than the carry
itself, particularly for commodities, which provides the weakest results when using the
magnitude of the carry to weight securities. However, the drawback of using rank-based
carry weights is that the magnitudes of the coefficients from these regressions are more
difficult to interpret. The additional predictive power we get from using ranks instead
of the magnitude of the carry itself may be due to the benefits of trimming outliers in
measured carry. This explanation is consistent with the biggest improvement coming for
commodities, where their seasonal components and their heterogeneity likely generate the
most noisy carry measures. On the other hand, the stronger predictive power of ranks may
also indicate that a very large value of the carry is not associated with a commensurately
high expected return, an issue we study further below.




                                             24
3.2    How Far Into the Future Does Carry Predict Returns?
It is also interesting to consider how far into the future carry predicts returns. To address
this question, we run the following regression

                                i
                               rt+1 = ai + bt + cCt+1−k
                                                  i
                                                        + εit+1 ,                          (23)

where we consider carry with k = 1 as well as lagged values of the carry for k = 3, 6, 12,
and 24. Figure 4 reports the regression coefficients and their 95%−confidence intervals.
We include both asset and time fixed effects and use the carry1-12.
   All of the coefficients for the most recent value of carry are significantly positive,
consistent with the results in Table 5 and, in most cases, the predictive strength of carry
declines over the course of one year. Hence, carry’s predictive power for returns seems to
extend to about a year before dissipating for every asset class.
   The fact that carry predicts returns only for a relatively short time period suggests
that a carry trade portfolio changes frequently and that a large part of the return comes
from this dynamic rebalancing, consistent with our previous results. We next study in
more detail the importance of this dynamic return component relative to the passive
component.


3.3    Does the Carry of the Carry Trade Predict Returns?
Table 6 reports how the carry of the carry trade predicts the returns of the carry trade.
Specifically, we report results from the following regression

                              carry trade
                             rt+1         = a + bCtcarry trade + εit+1 ,                   (24)

where rtcarry trade is the return of the carry trade and Ctcarry trade is the carry of the carry
trade portfolio at time t. As Table 6 reports, the carry of the carry trade does not predict
the returns to the carry trade, except marginally in equities. Hence, while carry predicts
returns in general, such that the carry trade makes money on average in all asset classes,
it does not appear to be the case that a larger spread in the carry itself is associated with
larger expected returns. That is, timing the carry strategy using the size of the carry




                                                 25
itself does not seem to yield much predictive power. 10,11
    Table 6 also shows how the average carry in each asset class predicts the return to
the passive long position in each asset class. This is similar to the panel regression of
equation (21), with the exception that it only relies on time series information for a single
diversified portfolio, whereas the previous regressions used all the information from all the
securities as well as their cross-sectional differences. The point estimates of the predictive
coefficients for the passive index in each asset class are positive, but are significant only
for equities and currencies.


4      How Risky Are Carry Strategies?
In this section we investigate whether the high returns to carry strategies compensate
investors for certain risk factors.


4.1     Risk Exposure of Carry Strategies
A large and growing literature studying the currency carry strategy suggests that carry
returns may compensate investors for crash risk, liquidity risk, US business cycle risk,
or global volatility risk. By studying multiple asset classes at the same time, we provide
some out-of-sample evidence of existing theories, as well as some guidance for new theories
to be developed. The common feature we highlight is that all carry strategies produce
high Sharpe ratios. However, the crash risk for currency carry appears to be unique to
currencies, and does not extend to other asset classes. The question remains whether other
risks inherent in carry strategies extend across asset classes at the same time and whether
the high average returns to carry strategies can be plausibly explained as compensation
for those risks.
    To identify the risk in carry strategies, we focus on the global carry factor in which
we combine all four carry strategies across all asset classes. We argue that the carry1-12
  10
     This might be due to a non-linear effect, where a very large difference in carry across securities
in an asset class might suggest that the higher-carry securities are exposed to risks or expected price
depreciation. For instance, a currency under attack tends to have a high carry but may also have a
low expected return. For example, when George Soros attacked the British pound in 1992, the Bank of
England raised interest rates to defend the currency, thus making the pound a high-carry currency, but,
as judged by Soros and other speculators, the expected return was still quite low, and, as it turned out,
so was the realized return when the British Pound eventually plummeted.
  11
     The results of the predictive regression may be weakened by the fact that certain contracts enter,
and drop from, the sample, which may lead to breaks in the time series of the carry of the carry portfolio.
Consistent with this view, we find that the carry of the carry portfolio predicts the Treasuries and credit
carry returns in Section 5, for which the cross-section of contracts is stable over time.



                                                    26
strategy is more plausibly related to macro-economic risk than the current carry strategy,
which moves at a higher frequency and is more susceptible to seasonal features. In the
top panel of Figure 5 we plot the cumulative return on the global carry1-12 strategy.
The bottom panel removes a linear time trend from the cumulative returns and plots the
cyclical component of returns over time. We find that, despite the high Sharpe ratio,
the global carry strategy is far from riskless and exhibits sizeable declines for extended
periods of time.
    Examining the carry strategy’s downside returns, the most striking feature is that the
downturns tend to coincide with plausibly bad aggregate states of the global economy,
which we measure using a global recession indicator, which is a GDP-weighted average
of the regional recession dummies. Global carry returns tend to be low during global
recessions. The figure also indicates that the timing between real variables and asset
prices differs per recession. Hence, it may not be best to focus on recessions as measured
by the NBER methodology.
    As an alternative approach, we identify what we call carry “downturns” and
“expansions.” We first compute the maximum draw-down of the global carry strategy,
which is defined as:
                                     X t                Xu
                              Dt ≡       rs − max            rs ,
                                                u∈{1,...,t}
                                   s=1                        s=1

where rs denotes the return on the global carry1-12 strategy. The draw-down dynamics are
presented in Figure 6. Three carry downturns stand out: September 1992 to December
1992, May 1997 to September 1998, and November 2007 to January 2009. The first
period is identified as a recession in Continental Europe and Asia. The second period
coincides with the Asian crisis. The third carry downturn, November 2007 to January
2009, coincides with the recent “Great Recession.” This preliminary evidence suggests
carry strategies are exposed to global business cycles.
    To show that these downturns are indeed shared among all four asset classes, we
further explore the return properties of the different asset classes in Table 7. The top
panel reports average annualized returns on the current carry and the carry1-12 strategy
for each asset class during carry downturns and carry expansions. For all strategies in
all asset classes, the returns are lower during carry downturns. This implies that the
downturns of the global carry factor are not particular to a single asset class.
    The middle panel breaks the average returns down for each of the three downturns
and for all strategies. The returns are below the average returns for 23 out of 24 cases.
This evidence implies that carry downturns are bad periods for all carry strategies at the
same time across all asset classes.


                                           27
     The bottom panel then illustrates that these are also periods in which global economic
activity, as measured by the global recession indicator, slows down. During carry
downturns, the average value of the global recession indicator equals 0.41 versus 0.17
during carry expansions. The difference is statistically significant at the 5%-significance
level. We further show that carry downturns are characterized by lower levels of global
liquidity as well. If we average global liquidity shocks (obtained from Asness, Moskowitz,
and Pedersen (2012)) during carry downturns and carry expansions, we find that the
average level of liquidity is lower during carry downturns. The difference is again
significant at the 5%-significance level.
     Figure 7 displays the drawdowns per carry strategy, based on the broad regions
or groups, alongside the drawdown dynamics of the global carry factor. The shaded
areas indicate the carry drawdowns identified before. The drawdown dynamics of the
different strategies tend to coincide with the drawdown dynamics of the global carry
factor, consistent with the evidence in Table 7. Furthermore, the figure highlights that
there are severe drawdowns that are specific to a single asset class, such as in 2001 for
equities and in 2003 for commodities.
     To further illustrate that carry downturns correspond to bad aggregate states, we study
the returns in all asset classes by five broad geographic regions and three broad groups
of commodities during carry downturns and expansions. The results are summarized in
Table 8. The average return for equities, currencies, and commodities are much lower
during carry downturns. Fixed income returns, by contrast, are much higher, reflecting
the fact that the yield curve tends to flatten during recessions. This implies that equally
weighted strategies do poorly during carry episodes as well for equities, currencies, and
commodities, while fixed income is a hedge.
     At a more micro level, we see that for equities, commodities, and fixed income, this
pattern emerges for each and every region or group. For currencies, the returns are lower
for all regions, apart from Asia, where the Japanese Yen tends to appreciate during carry
downturns. Carry strategies do poorly during these episodes as, for instance for equities,
it is long the regions that decline most and short the regions that do not decline as much.
This makes carry strategies risky bets on global business cycles.


4.2    Static and Dynamic Risk Exposure
The average return of the carry trade depends on two sources of exposure: (i) a “passive”
return component due to the average carry trade portfolio being long (short) securities
that have high (low) unconditional returns, and (ii) a “dynamic” return component that


                                            28
captures how strongly variation in carry predicts returns.
   The estimate of the expected return on a carry strategy can be written as:

                                                  T   N
                                                1 XX ∗
                                  E (rp,t+1 ) =          w rn,t+1 ,
                                                T t=1 n=1 n,t

         ∗                                                 ∗
where wn,t  = wn,t when the contract is available and wn,t    = 0 otherwise. N denotes
the total number of contracts that are used at any point in the strategy (potentially at
different points in time). We define the set of dates for which the weight at time t and
the return at time t + 1 are available for security n by Tn . The number of observations
for contract n are denoted by Tn . It then follows:

                N
                X Tn
E (rp,t+1 ) =             E n (wn,t rn,t+1 )                                                  (25)
                n=1
                      T
                XN                          N
                                            X
                 Tn n          n              Tn n
           =        E (wn,t ) E (rn,t+1 ) +     E [(wn,t − E n (wn,t )) (rn,t+1 − E n (rn,t+1 ))],
             n=1 |
                  T       {z           } n=1 |T                    {z                           }
                            Static component                          Dynamic component

                                   P           
where we define E n (xn,t ) ≡ Tn−1    t∈Tn xn,t , for any n and time series xx,t .
    Here, E(wn,t ) is the portfolio’s “passive exposure” to asset i, while the “dynamic
exposure” wn,t − E(wn,t ) is zero on average over time, representing a timing strategy in
the asset that goes long and short according to the asset’s carry.
    Table 9 reports the results of this decomposition, where we estimate the static and
dynamic components of returns according to equation (26). For equities, the dynamic
component comprises the entirety of the current carry trade’s returns and 87% of the
carry1-12 portfolio returns. The results for commodities, fixed income, currencies are less
extreme, where a little more than half of the bond and commodities carry returns come
from the dynamic component and for the currency carry returns the split between passive
and dynamic components is approximately equal. Overall, carry trade returns appear to
be due to both passive exposures and dynamic rebalancing, with some variation across
asset classes in terms of the importance of these two components.
    Lastly, we study whether the poor returns of carry strategies are the result of the
passive or the dynamic component of carry strategies. For instance, for equities, are the
poor returns driven by the fact that regions with a high average carry (and hence on
average held long in the carry strategy) experience larger declines in their stock market
during carry downturns? Or, does the carry shift during carry downturns such that carry
strategies become risky during these bad aggregate states?


                                                 29
    In Table 10, we decompose the return during carry expansions and downturns into the
passive and dynamic components. We find that carry downturns are largely driven by the
passive component, in particular for equities. Hence, hedging out the passive component
of carry strategies could mitigate the impact of carry downturns.


5     What Is New About Carry?
In this paper, we generalize the concept of carry, typically only applied to currencies, and
apply it to a broader set of assets that include global equities, global fixed income, and
commodities, in addition to currencies. In addition, we also discuss how carry provides a
unifying framework that synthesizes much of the return predictability evidence found in
these other asset classes and mostly treated disjointly across those asset classes.
    For example, we discuss how the concept of carry and our carry measures relate to
standard predictor variables in each of the asset classes, such as the dividend yield for
global equities, the yield spread for global fixed income, and the convenience yield for
commodities. These predictors are typically treated as separate and unrelated phenomena
in each asset class, but we show how carry provides a unifying characteristic that can
capture much of this evidence and provides a related theme across all asset classes.
    However, we also show that carry can be quite different from standard predictors and
therefore adds to the predictability literature. For example, for global equities the carry
is the expected dividend yield which can be quite different from the standard historical
dividend yield.
    In addition to unifying and extending the set of standard predictor variables, we
also illustrate how the concept of carry provides useful predictor variables for other cross-
sections of assets not previously examined. We focus on the cross-section of US Treasuries,
the cross-section of US credit portfolios, and the cross-section of US index options. It may
be interesting for future research to explore alternative carry strategies for different cross-
sections of assets using the same concept of carry as we propose in this paper.


5.1    Link to Standard Predictor Variables
Global Fixed Income For fixed income, a standard predictor of bond returns in the
time series is the yield spread (Fama and Bliss (1987) and Campbell and Shiller (1991)).
As we show in Section 1, the fixed income carry equals the yield spread plus a roll-down
component. To understand the importance of the roll-down component, we also compute
the yield spread between the 10-year and 3-month bond yields. In our sample, the average


                                              30
(across countries) time-series correlation between the yield spread and the carry signal
is 0.90. If we use the yield spread, instead of the carry, as a signal, the returns, not
surprisingly, look very similar. The correlation between the returns generated from yield
spreads and those from the current carry signal is 0.91 and for the carry1-12 signal is 0.95.

Global Equities For global equities, Section 1 shows that the carry signal
approximately equals Ct = EtQ (Dt+1 ) /St − rtf , where rtf is the local short rate. Based on
this insight, it appears that carry strategies sort countries on dividend yields and hence
closely resemble a value strategy. We illustrate that the carry strategy is in fact quite
different from a standard value strategy that sorts on dividend yields.
    First, we show for the US equity market, using a long time series, that the dynamics of
carry are different from the standard dividend yield. Second, we sort countries directly on
the dividend yield rather than on carry. The resulting return series has a low correlation
with our carry strategy.
    To construct the dividend yield for the US, we use the standard CRSP value-weighted
index that includes all stocks on AMEX, Nasdaq, and NYSE. We construct the dividend
yield as the sum of 12 months of dividends, divided by the current index level following
Fama and French (1988). 12
    To construct a long time series of carry, we make the following assumptions. First,
we measure rtf by the 30-day T-bill rate. Second, we approximate Dt+1 = EtQ (Dt+1 ). As
most firms announce dividends one to three months in advance, index level dividends are
highly predictable one month ahead. This implies that we measure Ct ≃ Dt+1 /St − rtf .
    The time series of the dividend yield and equity carry are displayed in Figure 8 for
the period January 1945 until December 2011. To highlight the differences, the bottom
panel of Figure 8 standardizes both series.
    At least three aspects are worth mentioning. First, the average short rate is about
the same as the average dividend yield. This implies that the average carry equals -
7bp during this sample period, while the average dividend yield equals 3.36%. Second,
the current carry (CC) displays important seasonal variation as a result of the payout
behavior of firms that is concentrated in several months. The importance of seasonalities
declines substantially over time. Third, the variation in the interest rate can contribute
substantially to the variation in the equity carry. For instance, during episodes of high
interest rates, like for instance in the 1980s, both series move in opposite directions.
    The time series correlation between the dividend yield and the current carry is 0.30,
  12
     Binsbergen and Koijen (2010) show that dividend yield dynamics are very similar if instead of simply
summing the monthly dividends, the dividends are invested at the 30-day T-bill rate.



                                                   31
and between the dividend yield and the carry1-12 it is 0.36, while the correlation between
both carry measures equals 0.80. Hence, the time-series correlation between carry and
value signals is quite different, even for the carry1-12 signal. This is for two reasons.
First, we subtract (and average) the one-month interest rate. Second, and more subtle,
we average Dt+1 /Pt over 12 months. For the dividend yield, by contrast, we sum 12
                                                              P
months of dividends and divide by the current price, DPt = 11    s=0 Dt−s /Pt . This implies
that the carry signal smooths both prices and dividends, while in case of the dividend
yield, only the dividends are smoothed.
    We next verify to what extent carry and value signals produce different portfolio
returns. We collect cash returns from Bloomberg and construct the dividend yield for
the cross-section of countries we consider as described above. The sample for which
Bloomberg reports cash returns is smaller than the sample for which we can compute the
carry. To ensure comparability, we only take positions in contracts for which both the
carry and the dividend yield are available. 13
    The results are reported in Table 11. The top panel reports the summary statistics of
the strategies and the middle panel reports the correlations between the strategy returns.
All strategies produce substantial Sharpe ratios, although the carry1-12 strategy performs
worse for the restricted sample. The return correlations are low. The correlation between
the current carry and the dividend yield strategy is only 0.07; it is 0.29 for the carry1-
12 and the dividend strategy. The bottom panel illustrates the results of a time-series
regression in which we try to explain the returns on the carry strategies with the value
factor. Consistent with the evidence in Table 4, the betas are close to zero for the current
carry strategy and about 0.3 for the carry1-12 strategy (despite the fact that all strategies
have about the same return volatility). Hence, we conclude that the carry signals contain
important independent information beyond the standard value signals studied extensively
in the literature.


5.2      Illustrations of Alternative Carry Strategies
US Treasuries As a first example of an alternative carry strategy, we implement the
carry strategy for US Treasuries. We use standard CRSP bond portfolios with maturities
equal to 1 to 12, 13 to 24, 25 to 36, 37 to 48, 49 to 60, 61 to 120 months. The sample
period is January 1971 to February 2011. To compute the carry, we use the bond yields
of Gurkaynak, Sack, and Wright. 14 We use the average maturity to compute the price
of a zero-coupon bond, and compute the carry of a Treasury bond of maturity τ as
 13
      [IN PROGRESS: EXPAND THE SAMPLE OF DIVIDEND YIELD DATA].
 14
      See http://www.federalreserve.gov/econresdata/researchdata.htm.


                                             32
Ctτ = Ptτ −1 /Ptτ − 1.
    The results are presented in the left panel of Table 12. The top panel shows that the
carry strategy based on US Treasuries has a Sharpe ratio of about 0.35. However, due
to the different volatilities of the contracts, this strategy is not neutral to the Treasury
market, which we define as the difference between the return on an equally-weighted
portfolio of all Treasury bonds and the LIBOR rate. The beta is about 0.45 for the
current carry strategy and 0.3 for the carry1-12 strategy. The resulting information ratios
are about 0.3.
    In the middle panel, we report the results of a predictive regression in which we use
the carry of the carry portfolio to predict carry returns. We find that for both carry
strategies, the carry of the carry portfolio predicts returns at a 10% significance level.
    Lastly, we measure the returns during carry expansions and downturns. We find, in
contrast to the other carry strategies, that the carry strategy based on the cross-section
of U.S. Treasuries performs well during carry recessions. This result is in part driven by
the positive beta, but this result survives even if we control for the exposure to the overall
Treasury market.

US Credit Portfolios As a second example, we form carry portfolios based on eight
US credit portfolios sorted by maturity and credit quality. We use the Barclays’ corporate
bond indices from Datastream for “Intermediate” (average duration about 5 years)
and “Long-term” (average duration about 10 years) maturities. In addition, we have
information on the average maturity within a given portfolio and the average bond yield.
In terms of credit quality, we consider AAA, AA, A, and BAA. The sample period is
January 1973 to February 2011. We compute the carry in the same way as for Treasuries.
    The results are presented in the right panel of Table 12. The Sharpe ratios, betas, 15
and information ratios are very similar to the results for Treasuries, although the return
distribution of the carry1-12 strategy displays substantial negative skewness.
    For credit portfolios, we find even stronger evidence that the carry of the carry portfolio
predicts carry returns, with t-statistics on the predictive coefficient of about 3 for monthly
returns as reported in the middle panel.
    In the bottom panel, we verify the performance of the credit carry strategies during
carry recessions and downturns. For credits we find, consistent with the other asset classes,
that credit carry strategies perform poorly during carry downturns.
  15
    As before, we define the market as the equally-weighted average of all credit portfolios in excess of
the LIBOR rate.




                                                   33
US Index Options As a third example of an alternative carry strategy, we apply the
concept of carry to U.S. index options.
   We define the price of a call option at time t with maturity T , strike K, implied
volatility σ T , and underlying Sit as FtC (Sit , K, T, σ T ). The equivalent put price is denoted
by FtP (Sit , K, T, σ T ) . We apply the same concept of carry as before, that is, the return
on a security if prices do not change.
   In the context of options, this implies for the definition of carry (j = C, P ):

                          j                 Ftj (Sit , K, T − 1, σ T −1 )
                         Cit (K, T, σ T ) =                               − 1,                                 (26)
                                                 Ftj (Sit , K, T, σ T )

which depends on the maturity, the strike, and the type of option traded. We could
subtract the risk-free rate from this expression, but all options are traded in US markets
and hence this will not change the rank of the signals in our cross-sectional strategies. 16

   We can write the carry in terms of the option’s theta (θ) and vega (ν). We first
approximate:

      Ftj (Sit , K, T − 1, σ T −1 ) ≃ Ftj (Sit , K, T, σ T )                                                   (27)
                                           −θjt (Sit , K, T, σ T ) − ν jt (Sit , K, T, σ T )(σ T − σ T −1 ).

This allows us to write the option carry as:

                                 −θjt (Sit , K, T, σ T ) − ν jt (Sit , K, T, σ T )(σ T − σ T −1 )
           Citj (K, T, σ T ) ≃                                                                    .            (28)
                                                      Ftj (Sit , K, T, σ T )

The size of the carry is therefore driven by the time value (via θ) and the “roll-down”
component of the volatility curve (via ν). The option contracts we consider differ in terms
of moneyness and whether it is a put or call option.
   We use data from OptionMetrics starting in January 1996 through February 2011.
We use the following indices: Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJX), NASDAQ 100 Index
(NDX), CBOE Mini-NDX Index (MNX), AMEX Major Market Index (XMI), S&P500
Index (SPX), S&P100 Index (OEX), S&P Midcap 400 Index (MID), S&P Smallcap 600
Index (SML), Russell 2000 Index (RUT), and PSE Wilshire Smallcap Index (WSX).
   We take positions in options between 30 and 60 days to maturity at the last trading
day of each month. We exclude options with non-standard expiration dates. We hold the
  16
     Our equity strategies are a special case of the call options carry strategy, where lim K → 0 and T = 1.
In this case, limK→0 F C = limK→0 E(M (S − K)+ ) = E(M S), which is the forward price of equities.




                                                        34
positions for one month. 17
       We then construct two delta groups: 18

   1. Out of the money: Δ ∈ [0.2, 0.4) or Δ ∈ [−0.4, −0.2)

   2. At the money: Δ ∈ [0.4, 0.6) or Δ ∈ [−0.6, −0.4)

We implement the carry strategies separately for call and put options. We select one
option per delta group for each index. If multiple options are available, we first select the
contract with the highest volume. If there are still multiple contracts available, we select
the contracts with the highest open interest. In some rare cases, we still have multiple
matches, and we then choose the option with the highest price, that is, the option that is
most in the money (in a given moneyness group). Furthermore, we do not take positions
in options for which the volume or open interest are zero for the contracts that are required
to compute the carry. 19
    The results are presented in Table 13, where we focus on the current-carry strategy.
We find that for both options carry strategies, the return distribution displays substantial
negative skewness. The Sharpe ratio for call options equals 0.3, but is much higher for put
options at 1.7. If we were to apply the carry strategy to a single index, the carry strategy
tends to short out-of-the money put options, and is long at-the-money options, which is
known to be a profitable strategy with occasionally large drawdowns. This illustrates once
more that the concept of carry connects and extends predictor variables and investment
strategies across many different asset classes.
    We furthermore find that the carry of the carry portfolio significantly predicts returns
on the carry portfolio for put options. This is perhaps even more surprising given that
the sample is relatively short as it starts only in 1996.
    Interestingly, if we study the performance of carry strategies during carry downturns,
we find that the options carry strategies behave differently during these episodes. The
put options strategy, which generates the largest Sharpe ratios, performs poorly during
carry downturns, but does well during carry expansions. The opposite is true for the carry
strategy using call options. It may therefore be valuable to combine both strategies.
  17
     The screens largely follow from Frazzini and Pedersen (2011), but the contracts included in the
strategy become less liquid.
  18
     Results are stronger if we include all five delta groups as defined in Frazzini and Pedersen (2011).
  19
     [IN PROGRESS: DELTA-HEDGED CARRY STRATEGIES AND CARRY STRADDLES]




                                                   35
6    Conclusion: Caring about Carry
A security’s expected return can be decomposed into its “carry” and its expected price
appreciation, where carry can be measured in advance without an asset pricing model.
We find that carry predicts returns both in the cross section and time series for a variety
of different asset classes that include global equities, bonds, currencies, and commodities,
as well as within US Treasuries, credit, and equity index options.
    This predictability underlies the strong returns to “carry trades” that go long
high-carry and short low-carry securities, which have been applied almost exclusively
to currencies. Decomposing carry returns into static and dynamic components, we
investigate the nature of this predictability across asset classes. We identify “carry
downturns”—when carry strategies across all asset classes do poorly—and show that
these episodes coincide with global recessions and liquidity crises.




                                            36
Appendix


A      Foreign-Denominated Futures
Here we briefly explain how we compute the US-dollar return and carry of a futures
contract which is denominated in foreign currency. Suppose that the exchange rate is et
(measured in number of local currency per unit of foreign currency), the local interest
rate is rf , the foreign interest rate is rf ∗ , the spot price is St , and the futures price is Ft ,
where both St and Ft are measured in foreign currency.
    Suppose that a U.S. investor allocates Xt dollars of capital to the position. This
capital is transferred into Xt /et in a foreign-denominated margin account. One time
period later, the investor’s foreign denominated capital is (1 + rf ∗ )Xt /et + Ft+1 − Ft so
                                                                  
that the dollar capital is et+1 (1 + rf ∗ )Xt /et + Ft+1 − Ft . Assuming that the investor
hedges the currency exposure of the margin capital and that covered interest-rate parity
holds, the dollar capital is in fact (1 + rf )Xt + et+1 (Ft+1 − Ft ). Hence, the hedged dollar
return in excess of the local risk-free rate is

                                              et+1 (Ft+1 − Ft )
                                     rt+1 =                                                   (A.1)
                                                     Xt

For a fully-collateralized futures with Xt = et Ft , we have

                                   et+1 (Ft+1 − Ft )
                          rt+1 =
                                          et Ft
                                   (et+1 − et + et )(Ft+1 − Ft )
                                 =
                                                 et Ft
                                   Ft+1 − Ft et+1 − et Ft+1 − Ft
                                 =              +                                             (A.2)
                                       Ft              et       Ft

We compute the futures return using this exact formula, but we note that it is very similar
to the simpler expression (Ft+1 − Ft )/Ft ) as this simpler version is off only by the last
term of (A.2) which is of second-order importance (as a product of returns).
   We compute the carry of a foreign denominated futures as the return if the spot price
stays the same such that Ft+1 = St and if the exchange rate stays the same, et+1 = et .




                                                 37
Using this together with Equation (A.2), we see that the carry is 20

                                                     St − Ft
                                           Ct =              .                                     (A.3)
                                                        Ft


B      Data Sources
We describe below the data sources we use to construct our return series. Table 1 provide
summary statistics on our data, including sample period start dates.

Equities We use equity index futures data from 13 countries: the U.S. (S&P 500),
Canada (S&P TSE 60), the UK (FTSE 100), France (CAC), Germany (DAX), Spain
(IBEX), Italy (FTSE MIB), The Netherlands (EOE AEX), Norway (OMX), Switzerland
(SMI), Japan (Nikkei), Hong Kong (Hang Seng), and Australia (S&P ASX 200). The data
source is Bloomberg. We collect data on spot, nearest-, and second-nearest-to-expiration
contracts to calculate the carry as described in Section 1. We calculate the returns on the
most active equity futures contract for each market (which is typically the front-month
contract). This procedure ensures that we do not require any form of interpolation to
compute returns.

Currencies The currency data consist of spot and one-month forward rates for 19
countries: Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, The Netherlands, Portugal
and Spain (replaced with the euro from January 1999), Australia, Canada, Denmark,
Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United
States. Our basic dataset is obtained from Barclays Bank International (BBI) prior to
1997:01 and WMR/Reuters thereafter and is similar to the data in Burnside, Eichenbaum,
Kleshchelski and Rebelo (2011), Lustig, Roussanov and Verdelhan (2011), and Menkhoff,
Sarno, Schmeling and Schrimpf (2010). However, we verify and clean our quotes with data
obtained from HSBC, Thomson Reuters, and data from BBI and WMR/Reuters sampled
one day before and one day after the end of the month using the algorithm described
below.
    At the start of our sample in 1983:10, there are 6 pairs available. All exchange rates
are available since 1997:01, and following the introduction of the euro there are 10 pairs
in the sample since 1999:01.
  20
    It is straightforward to compute the carry if the investor does not hedge the interest rate. In this
case, the carry is adjusted by a term rf∗ − rf , where rf∗ denotes the interest rate in the country of the
index and rf the US interest rate.



                                                   38
    There appear to be several data errors in the basic data set. We use the following
algorithm to remove such errors. Our results do not strongly depend on removing these
outliers. For each currency and each date in our sample, we back out the implied foreign
interest rate using the spot- and forward exchange rate and the US 1-month LIBOR. We
subsequently compare the implied foreign interest rate with the interbank offered rate
obtained from Global Financial Data and Bloomberg. If the absolute difference between
the currency-implied rate and the IBOR rate is greater than a specified threshold, which
we set at 2%, we further investigate the quotes using data from our alternative sources.
More specifically:

   • before (after) 1997:01, if data is available from WMR/Reuters (BBI) and the
     absolute difference of the implied rate is below the threshold, replace the default
     source BBI (WMR/Reuters) with WMR/Reuters (BBI)

        – if data is available from WMR/Reuters (BBI) and the absolute difference
          of the implied rate is also above the threshold, keep the default source BBI
          (WMR/Reuters)

   • else, if data is available from HSBC and the absolute difference of the implied rate
     is below the threshold, replace the default source with HSBC

        – if data is available from HSBC and the absolute difference of the implied rate
          is also above the threshold, keep the default source

   • else, if data is available from Thomson/Reuters and the absolute difference
     of the implied rate is below the threshold, replace the default source with
     Thomson/Reuters

        – if data is available from Thomson/Reuters and the absolute difference of the
          implied rate is also above the threshold, keep the default source

    If none of the other sources is available, we compare the end-of-month quotes with
quotes sampled one day before and one day after the end of the month and run the same
checks.
    In cases where the interbank offered rate has a shorter history than our currency data,
we include the default data if the currency-implied rate is within the tolerance of the
currency-implied rate from any of the sources described above.
    There are a few remaining cases, for example where the interbank offered rate is not
yet available, but the month-end quote is different from both the day immediately before


                                            39
and after the end of the month. In these cases, we check whether the absolute difference
of the implied rates from these two observations is within the tolerance, and take the
observation one day before month-end if that is the case.
    Figure 1 for Sweden illustrates the effects of our procedure by plotting the actual
interbank offered rate (“Libor BB”) with the currency-implied rate from the original
data (“Libor implied”) and the currency-implied rate after our data cleaning algorithm
has been applied (“Libor implied NEW”). Sweden serves as an illustration only, and the
impact for other countries is similar.

                                                 SWEDEN
                  30
                                                                    Libor BB
                                                                    Libor implied
                                                                    Libor implied NEW
                  25



                  20



                  15



                  10



                   5



                   0

                   1985       1990        1995        2000        2005         2010




Figure 1: Libor rates for Sweden. The figure shows the dynamics of three Libor rates: From Bloomberg
(“Libor BB”), the one implied by currency data (“Libor implied”), and the one implied by our corrected
currency data (“Libor implied NEW”).


    Some of the extreme quotes from the original source are removed (for instance, October
1993), whereas other extremes are kept (like the observations in 1992 during the banking
crisis).

Commodities Since there are no reliable spot prices for commodities, we use the
nearest-, second-nearest, and third-nearest to expiry futures prices from Bloomberg. Our
commodities data set consists of 24 commodities: 7 in metals (aluminum, copper, nickel,
zinc, lead, gold, and silver), 6 in energy (brent crude oil, gasoil, WTI crude, RBOB gasoline
(spliced with the unleaded gasoline contract which was delisted at the end of 2006),
heating oil, and natural gas), 8 in agriculture (cotton, coffee, cocoa, sugar, soybeans,

                                                 40
Kansas wheat, corn, and wheat), and 3 in livestock (lean hogs, feeder cattle, and live
cattle).
    The industrial metals contracts (from the London Metals Exchange, LME) are different
from the other contracts, as futures contracts can have daily expiration dates up to 3
months out. We collect cash- and 3-month (constant maturity) futures prices and use
linear interpolation to calculate returns.

Fixed income Bond futures are only available for a very limited number of countries
and for a relatively short sample period. We therefore create synthetic futures returns
for 10 countries: the US, Australia, Canada, Germany, the UK, Japan, New Zealand,
Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland. We collect zero coupon 10-year, 9-year, and 3-month
constant maturity yields from Bloomberg. Each month, we calculate the price of the 10-
year zero coupon bond and a bond with a remaining maturity of nine year and 11 months
(by linearly interpolating the 9- and 10-year yields). Our fixed income carry measure is
the percent price difference between these two bonds, minus the short rate (to make it
comparable to a non-funded basis like a futures contract). The rate of return is defined
similarly. For countries with bond futures data, the correlation between actual futures
returns and our synthetic futures returns is in excess of 0.95.


C     Predictive Regressions Using Ranks
The table below shows the results from predictive regressions where the value of each
security’s carry is replaced by the cross-sectional rank of its carry (scaled by the number
of securities Nt ) to rely less on the magnitude of the carry. More specifically,

                              i                    rank(Cti )
                             rt+1 = ai + b t + c              + εit .                (C.1)
                                                      Nt




                                             41
                                   Global Equities                      Commodities
     Slope current carry   1.16%    1.15% 1.28% 1.25%           1.42%   1.47% 0.87%     0.96%
     t-stat                 4.32     4.12   4.64   4.34          3.12    3.09  1.72      1.81

     Slope carry 1-12      0.69%    0.68%   0.94%       0.95%   1.52%   1.57%   0.87%   0.97%
     t-stat                 2.50     2.36    2.73        2.65    3.32    3.27    1.72    1.81

     Contract FE            No       No      Yes         Yes     No      No      Yes     Yes
     Time FE                No       Yes     No          Yes     No      Yes     No      Yes


                                   Fixed Income                          Currencies
     Slope current carry   0.62%   0.62% 0.66% 0.68%            0.56%   0.58% 0.79%     0.97%
     t-stat                 3.92    3.79   3.61 3.52             2.82    2.80  2.26      2.70

     Slope carry 1-12      0.32%    0.32%   0.23%       0.26%   0.46%   0.47%   0.54%   0.72%
     t-stat                 2.04     1.94    1.25        1.33    2.39    2.38    1.56    2.07

     Contract FE            No       No      Yes         Yes     No      No      Yes     Yes
     Time FE                No       Yes     No          Yes     No      Yes     No      Yes

Table B.1: How Carry Predicts Returns: Using Ranks.




                                                   42
References
Acharya, Viral, Lars Lochstoer, and Tarun Ramadorai, 2010, Limits to arbitrage and
  hedging: Evidence from commodity markets, Working paper.

Acharya, Viral V., and Lasse Heje Pedersen, 2005, Asset pricing with liquidity risk,
  Journal of Financial Economics 77, 375–410.

Asness, Cliff, Tobias Moskowitz, and Lasse Heje Pedersen, 2012, Value and momentum
  everywhere, forthcoming, Journal of Finance.

Bacchetta, Philippe, and Eric van Wincoop, 2010, Infrequent portfolio decisions: A
  solution to the forward discount puzzle, American Economic Review 100, 837–869.

Bailey, Warren, and K. C. Chan, 1993, Macroeconomic influences and the variability of
  the commodity futures basis, Journal of Finance 48, 555–573.

Bansal, Ravi, and Amir Yaron, 2004, Risks for the long-run: A potential resolution of
  asset pricing puzzles, Journal of Finance 59, 1481–1509.

Barr, David G., and Richard Priestley, 2004, Expected returns, risk and the integration
  of international bond markets, Journal of International Money and Finance 23, 71–97.

Bessembinder, Hendrik, 1992, Msystematic risk, hedging pressure, and risk premiums in
  futures markets, Review of Financial Studies 4, 637–667.

Binsbergen, Jules H. van, and Ralph S.J. Koijen, 2010, Predictive regressions: A present-
  value approach, Journal of Finance 65, 1439–1471.

Binsbergen, Jules van, Michael W. Brandt, and Ralph S.J. Koijen, 2012, On the timing
  and pricing of dividends, American Economic Review 102(4), 1596–1618.

Binsbergen, Jules van, Wouter Hueskes, Ralph S.J. Koijen, and Evert B. Vrugt, 2010,
  Equity yields, Working Paper: Northwestern University and University of Chicago.

Brunnermeier, Markus K., Stefan Nagel, and Lasse H. Pedersen, 2008, Carry Trades and
  Currency Crashes, NBER Macroeconomics Annual 23, 313–348.

Brunnermeier, Markus .K., and Lasse H. Pedersen, 2009, Market Liquidity and Funding
  Liquidity, Review of Financial Studies 22, 2201–2238.

Burnside, Craig, Martin Eichenbaum, Isaac Kleshchelski, and Sergio Rebelo, 2006, The
  returns to currency speculation, Working Paper.

                                           43
Campbell, John Y., and John H. Cochrane, 1999, By force of habit: A consumption-
  based explanation of aggregate stock market behavior, Journal of Political Economy
  107, 205–251.

Campbell, John Y., and Robert J. Shiller, 1991, Yield spreads and interest rates: A bird’s
  eye view, Review of Economic Studies 58, 495–514.

Casassus, J., and P. Collin-Dufresne, 2005, Stochastic convenience yield implied from
  commodity futures and interest rates, The Journal of Finance 60, 2283–2331.

Chan, Louis K. C., Yasushi Hamao, and Josef Lakonishok, 1991, Fundamentals and stock
  returns in japan, Journal of Finance 46, 1739–1764.

Cochrane, John H., 2011, Discount rates, The Journal of Finance 66, 1047–1108.

Engel, Charles, 1996, The forward discount anomaly and the risk permium: A survey of
  recent evidence, Journal of Empirical Finance 3, 123–192.

Erb, C.B., and C.R. Harvey, 2006, The strategic and tactical value of commodity futures,
  Financial Analysts Journal pp. 69–97.

Fama, Eugene F., 1984, Forward and spot exchange rates, Journal of Monetary Economics
  14, 319–338.

      , and Robert H. Bliss, 1987, The information in long-maturity forward rates,
  American Economic Review 77, 680–692.

Fama, Eugene F., and Kenneth R. French, 1987, Commodity futures prices: Some
  evidence on forecast power, premiums, and the theory of storage, Journal of Business
  60, 55–73.

       , 1988, Dividend yields and expected stock returns, Journal of Financial
  Economics 22, 3–27.

       , 1998, Value versus growth: The international evidence, Journal of Finance 53,
  1975–1999.

       , 2011, Size, value, and momentum in international stock returns, Working Paper.

Farhi, Emmanuel, and Xavier Gabaix, 2008, Rare disasters and exchange rates, working
  paper.



                                           44
Frazzini, Andrea, and Lasse Heje Pedersen, 2011, Embedded leverage, AQR Capital
  Management and New York University.

Froot, Kenneth A., and Richard H. Thaler, 1990, Anomalies: Foreign exchange, Journal
  of Economic Perspectives 4, 179–192.

Gabaix, Xavier, 2009, Variable rare disasters: An exactly solved framework for ten puzzles
  in macro-finance, Working paper, NYU.

Gârleanu, Nicolae, and Lasse Heje Pedersen, 2011, Margin-Based Asset Pricing and
  Deviations from the Law of One Price, Review of Financial Studies 24, 1980–2022.

Gorton, Gary, Fumio Hayashi, and Geert Rouwenhorst, 2007, The fundamentals of
  commodity futures returns, Working paper.

Griffin, John M., 2002, Are the fama and french factors global or country specific?, Review
  of Financial Studies 15, 783–803.

        , Xiuqing Ji, and J. Spencer Martin, 2003, Momentum investing and business
  cycle risk: Evidence from pole to pole, Journal of Finance 58, 2515–2547.

Hansen, Lars Peter, and Ravi Jagannathan, 1997, Assessing specific errors in stochastic
  discount factor models, Journal of Finance 52, 557–590.

Hong, Harrison, and Mothiro Yogo, 2010, What does futures market interest tell us about
  the macroeconomy and asset prices?, Working paper.

Hou, Kewei, G. Andrew Karolyi, and Bong Chan Kho, 2010, What factors drive global
  stock returns?, Working Paper.

Ilmanen, Antti, 1995, Time-varying expected returns in international bond markets,
   Journal of Finance 50, 481–506.

       , 2011, Expected Returns (John Wiley: United Kingdom).

Koijen, Ralph S.J., and Stijn Van Nieuwerburgh, 2011, Predictability of stock returns and
  cash flows, Annual Review of Financial Economics 3, 467–491.

Lewis, K.K., 1995, Puzzles in international financial markets, in Gene M. Grossman, and
  Kenneth Rogoff, ed.: Handbook of International Economics vol. 3 (North Holland:
  Amsterdam) Chap. 37.

Lucas, Robert, 1978, Asset prices in an exchange economy, Econometrica 46, 1429–1446.

                                            45
Lustig, Hanno, Nicholas Roussanov, and Adrien Verdelhan, 2010, Countercyclical
  currency risk premia, Working Paper.

Lustig, Hanno, and Adrien Verdelhan, 2007, The cross-section of foreign currency risk
  premia and us consumption growth risk, American Economic Review 97, 89–117.

Meese, R.A., and K. Rogoff, 1983, Empirical exchange rate models of the seventies:: Do
 they fit out of sample?, Journal of international economics 14, 3–24.

Moskowitz, Tobias J., Yao Hua Ooi, and Lasse Heje Pedersen, 2012, Time series
 momentum, Journal of Financial Economics 104, 228–250.

Pastor, Lubos, and Robert F. Stambaugh, 2003, Liquidity risk and expected stock returns,
  Journal of Political Economy 111, 642–685.

Rouwenhorst, K. Geert, 1998, International momentum strategies, Journal of Finance 53,
  267–284.

Szymanowska, Marta, Frans de Roon, Theo E. Nijman, and Rob van den Goorbergh, 2011,
  An anatomy of commodity futures risk premia, Working Paper: Erasmus University.

Tang, Ke, and Wei Xiong, 2010, Index investment and financialization of commodities,
  Working paper.

Wachter, Jessica A., 2010, Can time-varying risk of rare disasters explain aggregate stock
 market volatility?, Working Paper.

Yang, Fan, 2011, Investment shocks and the commodity basis spread, Working Paper:
  University of Minnesota.




                                           46
        Tables

Instrument    Begin       Return            Carry               Instrument      Begin       Return            Carry
              sample   Mean St.dev.      Mean St.dev.                           sample   Mean St.dev.      Mean St.dev.

Equities                                                        Commodities
SPX           Mar-88      5.8     14.9     -1.6      0.7        Crude Oil       Feb-99     22.8     33.0     0.2    5.7
SPTSX60       Oct-99      7.4     16.3     -1.0      0.8        Gasoil          Feb-99     22.5     34.2     2.7    5.6
UKX           Mar-88      3.7     15.2     -2.0      1.4        WTI Crude       Feb-87     12.6     33.7     1.9    7.2
CAC           Jan-89      4.1     19.8     -0.9      1.9        Unl. Gasoline   Nov-05      9.4     39.0    -7.6    9.8
DAX           Dec-90      6.2     21.6     -3.7      1.1        Heating Oil     Aug-86     12.6     33.3    -0.2    8.5
IBEX          Aug-92      9.6     21.6      1.1      2.0        Natural Gas     Feb-94    -15.0     54.9   -26.2   22.1
FTSEMIB       Apr-04      2.4     20.3      1.0      1.5        Cotton          Feb-80      2.5     24.8    -4.6    7.0
AEX           Feb-89      7.2     20.6     -0.1      1.5        Coffee          Feb-81      4.2     38.0    -4.8    5.1
OMX           Mar-05     10.1     19.5      1.3      2.2        Cocoa           Feb-84     -2.9     28.9    -6.8    3.4
SMI           Nov-91      5.3     15.1     -0.1      1.2        Sugar           Feb-80      1.3     39.8    -3.4    6.1
NKY           Oct-88     -3.1     22.4     -0.5      1.7        Soybeans        Feb-80      2.0     23.4    -2.7    5.7
HIS           May-92     12.5     27.9      1.2      2.3        Kansas Wheat    Feb-99      1.5     28.6    -8.6    3.4
AS51          Jun-00      5.0     13.4      0.7      1.0        Corn            Feb-80     -4.4     24.7   -10.8    5.3
                                                                Wheat           Feb-80     -5.2     24.5    -8.0    5.8
Currencies                                                      Lean Hogs       Jun-86     -2.7     24.8   -14.1   19.9
Australia     Jan-85      4.6     11.9      3.1      0.8        Feeder Cattle   Feb-02      3.2     15.0     0.6    4.7
Austria       Feb-97     -2.6      8.7     -2.1      0.0        Live Cattle     Feb-80      2.5     14.1     0.4    6.1
Belgium       Feb-97     -2.7      8.7     -2.1      0.1        Gold            Feb-80     -1.7     17.3    -5.5    1.1
Canada        Jan-85      2.2      7.1      0.8      0.5        Silver          Feb-80     -1.5     30.2    -6.4    1.8
Denmark       Jan-85      4.4     11.1      1.0      0.9        Aluminum        Feb-91     -1.2     19.1    -5.0    1.6
Euro          Feb-99      1.8     10.8     -0.4      0.4        Nickel          Feb-93     14.8     35.6     0.5    2.6
France        Nov-83      4.6     11.2      1.6      0.9        Lead            Feb-95     10.9     29.9    -0.7    2.8
Germany       Nov-83      2.8     11.7     -0.9      0.9        Zinc            Feb-91      2.1     25.6    -4.8    2.1
Ireland       Feb-97     -2.5      8.9      0.5      0.2        Copper          May-86     16.8     28.1     4.6    3.4
Italy         Apr-84      5.1     11.1      4.3      0.8
Japan         Nov-83      1.6     11.6     -2.9      0.6        Fixed income
Netherlands   Nov-83      3.0     11.6     -0.7      0.9        Australia       Jan-95      4.5     10.6     1.3    0.4
New Zealand   Jan-85      6.8     12.4      4.4      1.2        Canada          Jan-95      6.5      7.9     2.6    0.5
Norway        Jan-85      4.5     10.9      2.3      1.0        Germany         Nov-91      4.6      7.0     1.9    0.5
Portugal      Feb-97     -2.3      8.4     -0.6      0.2        UK              Jan-95      4.2      8.2     0.9    0.7
Spain         Feb-97     -1.5      8.5     -0.7      0.2        Japan           Nov-91      5.6      7.0     2.9    0.3
Sweden        Jan-85      3.5     11.4      1.7      1.0        New Zealand     Jan-95      2.6      9.8     0.6    0.6
Switzerland   Nov-83      2.0     11.9     -2.0      0.7        Norway          Aug-98      2.5      7.6     1.1    0.5
UK            Nov-83      2.9     10.5      2.0      0.6        Sweden          Jan-95      7.3      8.9     2.3    0.4
US            Nov-83      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        Switzerland     Jan-95      4.9      5.7     2.7    0.3
                                                                US              Jan-95      5.1     10.0     1.8    0.6


        Table 1: Summary Statistics. This table contains all the instruments that we use, the date as of which
        the returns and carry are available, and the annualized mean and standard deviation of the return and
        the carry.




                                                           47
                              Carry Trade:    Carry Trade:       Passive Long:
                              Current Carry    Carry 1-12       Equal Weighted

                                              Global Equities
                   Average         9.9%           6.5%               5.8%
                   St.dev.        10.6%          10.7%              15.8%
                   Skewness        0.17           0.11               -0.63
                   Kurtosis        4.79           3.82                4.01
                   SR              0.93           0.61               0.37

                                               Commodities
                   Average        11.7%          13.0%               1.3%
                   St.dev.        19.0%          19.5%              13.3%
                   Skewness        -0.41         -0.83              -0.66
                   Kurtosis         4.53          5.74               6.52
                   SR              0.62           0.67               0.10

                                           Global Fixed Income
                   Average        5.1%            3.0%              5.0%
                   St.dev.        6.3%            6.3%              6.5%
                   Skewness       -0.11           0.05              0.02
                   Kurtosis        5.03           4.86              3.12
                   SR             0.82            0.48              0.77

                                                Currencies
                   Average        5.3%           4.2%               3.0%
                   St.dev.        7.8%           7.6%               8.0%
                   Skewness       -0.75          -1.07              -0.10
                   Kurtosis        4.64           6.42               3.41
                   SR             0.68           0.55               0.37

                                    Diversified Across All Asset Classes
                   Average        7.3%             4.8%             4.0%
                   St.dev.        4.9%             5.1%             5.4%
                   Skewness       -0.22            -0.53            -1.07
                   Kurtosis        3.81             5.06             8.17
                   SR             1.49             0.95             0.75


Table 2: The Returns to Global Carry Strategies. For each asset class, we construct long/short
carry trades and this table reports the average, standard deviation, skewness, and kurtosis.




                                              48
                          Correlations of Carry Trades: Current Carry

                                 Equities   Commodities     Fixed Income     Currencies

                 Equities           100%
                 Commodities         -5%            100%
                 Fixed Income        -2%              4%            100%
                 Currencies           4%              3%             23%          100%

                            Correlations of Carry Trades: Carry1-12

                                 Equities   Commodities     Fixed Income     Currencies
                 Equities          100%
                 Commodities        -1%             100%
                 Fixed Income        6%             -11%            100%
                 Currencies         14%              12%             21%          100%


Table 3: The Correlation across Global Carry Strategies. The reports the monthly return
correlation between carry strategies. The top panel reports the results for the current carry strategies;
the bottom panel for the carry1-12 strategies.




                                                   49
                             Global Equities

                                CC    C1-12       CC    C1-12       CC    C1-12       CC    C1-12       CC    C1-12
     Alpha                   0.86%    0.53%    0.82%    0.39%    0.85%    0.39%    0.86%    0.40%    0.85%    0.40%
     t-stat                    4.67     2.81     4.46     1.96     4.63     1.93     4.73     2.01     4.62     2.01
     Passive long             -0.07     0.03    -0.08     0.03    -0.07     0.03    -0.10     0.02    -0.10     0.02
     t-stat                   -1.29     0.59    -1.40     0.52    -1.25     0.54    -1.69     0.44    -1.74     0.40
     Value “everywhere”                          0.12     0.32     0.14     0.33     0.08     0.30     0.08     0.30
     t-stat                                      1.19     3.64     1.38     3.71     0.81     3.39     0.85     3.43
     Momentum “everywhere”                       0.02     0.09     0.06     0.09     0.02     0.10     0.01     0.09
     t-stat                                      0.20     1.11     0.69     1.18     0.19     1.22     0.08     1.19
     TS momentum                                                  -0.04     0.00
     t-stat                                                       -1.42    -0.16
     Funding liquidity                                                              0.01      0.00
     t-stat                                                                         1.50     -0.02
     Market liquidity                                                                                  0.00     0.00
     t-stat                                                                                            1.10     0.14
50   R-square                 1.1%     0.3%     1.9%     5.8%     2.7%     5.8%     2.5%     5.0%     2.4%     5.0%
     IR                        0.98     0.59     0.93     0.45     0.96     0.45


                             Commodities

                                CC    C1-12       CC    C1-12       CC    C1-12       CC    C1-12       CC    C1-12
     Alpha                   0.98%    1.09%    0.85%    0.97%    0.73%    0.82%    0.71%    0.57%    0.68%    0.53%
     t-stat                    3.45     3.75     3.47     3.88     2.76     3.23     2.68     2.16     2.55     2.00
     Passive long              0.00    -0.08    -0.07    -0.17    -0.03    -0.11    -0.04    -0.16    -0.01    -0.11
     t-stat                   -0.03    -0.75    -0.96    -1.82    -0.39    -1.12    -0.42    -1.73    -0.11    -1.15
     Value “everywhere”                         -0.17    -0.24    -0.21    -0.27    -0.19    -0.21    -0.18    -0.21
     t-stat                                     -2.81    -4.21    -3.11    -4.73    -2.61    -3.66    -2.49    -3.83
     Momentum “everywhere”                       0.29     0.33     0.33     0.38     0.28     0.36     0.29     0.36
     t-stat                                      4.96     6.32     4.05     5.33     4.24     6.95     4.38     6.89
     TS momentum                                                  -0.11    -0.11
     t-stat                                                       -0.93    -1.09
     Funding liquidity                                                              0.01     0.02
     t-stat                                                                         0.91     2.68
     Market liquidity                                                                                  0.00     0.01
     t-stat                                                                                            0.04     1.40
     R-square                 0.0%     0.3%    18.1%    25.8%    21.0%    30.1%    20.3%    30.9%    19.8%    29.7%
     IR                        0.61     0.67     0.59     0.69     0.53     0.63
                                 Global Fixed Income

                                    CC    C1-12       CC    C1-12       CC    C1-12       CC    C1-12       CC    C1-12
      Alpha                      0.40%    0.28%    0.42%    0.27%    0.45%    0.28%    0.41%    0.28%    0.42%    0.29%
      t-stat                       3.11     2.18     3.12     2.08     3.51     2.17     2.96     2.08     3.05     2.17
      Passive long                 0.06    -0.07     0.05    -0.07     0.20    -0.04     0.06    -0.07     0.05    -0.08
      t-stat                       0.79    -0.82     0.60    -0.83     1.81    -0.34     0.66    -0.84     0.54    -0.98
      Value “everywhere”                            -0.04     0.05    -0.07     0.04    -0.05     0.05    -0.05     0.04
      t-stat                                        -0.27     0.31    -0.48     0.27    -0.29     0.29    -0.31     0.27
      Momentum “everywhere”                          0.12     0.07     0.21     0.09     0.10     0.05     0.11     0.06
      t-stat                                         0.95     0.47     1.67     0.59     0.82     0.34     0.89     0.40
      TS momentum                                                     -0.06    -0.01
      t-stat                                                          -2.41    -0.49
      Funding liquidity                                                                 0.00     0.00
      t-stat                                                                            1.24     1.28
      Market liquidity                                                                                     0.00     0.00
      t-stat                                                                                              -0.81    -1.28
      R-square                    0.4%     0.5%     1.3%     0.7%     4.5%     0.8%     1.8%     1.4%     1.4%     1.2%
      IR                           0.77     0.53     0.80     0.52     0.88     0.53

51
                                 Currencies

                                    CC    C1-12       CC    C1-12       CC    C1-12       CC    C1-12       CC    C1-12
      Alpha                      0.41%    0.32%    0.37%    0.32%    0.31%    0.26%    0.35%    0.30%    0.35%    0.29%
      t-stat                       3.27     2.57     2.89     2.57     2.23     1.95     2.73     2.42     2.60     2.26
      Passive long                 0.12     0.11     0.14     0.11     0.18     0.15     0.16     0.13     0.20     0.17
      t-stat                       1.72     1.41     2.16     1.70     2.67     2.12     2.29     1.84     2.61     2.19
      Value “everywhere”                             0.07     0.00     0.11     0.02     0.15     0.08     0.08    -0.01
      t-stat                                         0.72    -0.04     0.99     0.19     1.90     1.04     0.86    -0.08
      Momentum “everywhere”                          0.03     0.01     0.00    -0.01     0.13     0.11     0.14     0.11
      t-stat                                         0.39     0.14     0.00    -0.11     1.99     1.58     1.68     1.33
      TS momentum                                                      0.02     0.02
      t-stat                                                           0.43     0.34
      Funding liquidity                                                                 0.03     0.03
      t-stat                                                                            6.09     5.90
      Market liquidity                                                                                     0.01     0.01
      t-stat                                                                                               2.79     3.03
      R-square                    1.6%     1.4%     2.2%     1.5%     3.5%     2.2%    17.8%    22.6%    10.0%    13.1%
      IR                           0.64     0.51     0.58     0.51     0.47     0.41


     Table 4: Carry Trade Risk Exposures. The table reports the exposires to various risk factors. “CC” corresponds to the current-carry strategies;
     “C1-12” to the carry1-12 strategies.
                         Global Equities                 Commodities
Slope current carry   1.50 1.22 1.55 1.26         0.06    0.07 0.01 0.01
t-stat                3.57 4.29 3.52 4.31         0.75    0.84 0.12 0.15

Slope carry1-12       2.47   1.46   2.92   1.76   0.37    0.42   0.24   0.29
t-stat                3.55   2.87   3.52   2.86   3.15    3.57   1.86   2.19

Contract FE            No    No     Yes    Yes     No      No    Yes    Yes
Time FE                No    Yes    No     Yes     No      Yes   No     Yes

                      Global Fixed Income                 Currencies
Slope current carry   1.52 1.64 1.54 1.83         1.28    0.80 1.62 1.10
t-stat                2.59 3.78 2.19 3.61         3.19    2.93 2.68 2.67

Slope carry1-12       1.51   1.07   1.54   1.02   1.09    0.59   1.38   0.69
t-stat                2.44   2.38   2.03   1.91   3.03    1.96   2.48   1.37

Contract FE            No    No     Yes    Yes     No      No    Yes    Yes
Time FE                No    Yes    No     Yes     No      Yes   No     Yes


            Table 5: How Does Carry Predict Returns?




                                     52
            Current carry returns   Carry 1-12 returns   Passive long returns   Passive long returns
              predicted by its       predicted by its      predicted by its       predicted by its
                current carry           carry 1-12          current carry            carry 1-12

                                                Global Equities
Intercept          -0.2%                  -0.5%                 0.6%                   0.8%
t-stat              -0.45                  -1.24                2.21                   2.67
Carry                1.32                   2.52                1.90                   3.47
t-stat               2.64                   2.65                1.53                   2.16
R-square            3.1%                   3.2%                 1.1%                   1.6%

                                                  Commodities
Intercept           1.1%                  0.8%                  0.2%                   0.3%
t-stat               1.43                 0.60                  0.86                   1.36
Carry               -0.05                 0.14                  0.14                   0.39
t-stat              -0.22                 0.26                  0.44                   0.83
R-square            0.0%                  0.0%                  0.1%                   0.2%

                                            Global Fixed Income
Intercept           0.3%                  0.3%               0.3%                      0.3%
t-stat              0.61                   0.48              1.69                      1.32
Carry               0.52                  -0.12              0.64                      1.06
t-stat              0.28                  -0.05              0.57                      0.91
R-square            0.1%                  0.0%               0.1%                      0.3%

                                                   Currencies
Intercept           0.5%                  0.5%                  0.1%                   0.1%
t-stat               1.81                  1.60                 0.60                   0.64
Carry               -0.22                 -0.38                 2.41                   2.32
t-stat              -0.35                 -0.53                 2.60                   2.80
R-square            0.0%                  0.1%                  2.9%                   2.5%


            Table 6: How the Carry of a Portfolio Predicts the Portfolio Return.




                                                  53
                                                                Carry Trade:                                           Carry Trade:
                                                                Current Carry                                           Carry 1-12

     Average return                          Equities   Fixed income    Currencies   Commodities   Equities   Fixed income    Currencies   Commodities
     Carry expansions                         11.1%             5.9%         8.9%         16.2%       8.4%             4.0%        8.6%         13.0%
     Carry downturns                           1.2%             1.3%       -15.7%          1.6%      -8.4%            -2.5%      -19.6%         -8.8%

     Average return per carry downturn       Equities   Fixed income    Currencies   Commodities   Equities   Fixed income    Currencies   Commodities
     September 1992 - December 1992            -7.6%            -4.4%      -47.8%         -7.8%       4.9%            -4.4%      -52.7%         -4.9%
     May 1997 - September 1998                  3.8%             3.4%       -2.7%        -12.6%     -13.2%            -0.6%       -2.7%         -6.7%
     November 2007 - January 2009               0.5%             0.3%      -21.8%         20.1%      -6.4%            -4.0%      -29.9%        -12.2%
     Number of downturns below average              3               3            3             2          3               3            3             3

     Average macro and liquidity variables         Carry expansions             Carry downturns
     Global recession dummy                                    0.17                        0.41
     Global liquidity shocks                                   0.02                       -0.17

54
               Table 7: The Returns to Global Carry Strategies across Regions During Carry Recessions and Expansions.
                                North          Continental        United      Asia       Australia /    Average
                               America             Europe       Kingdom                 New Zealand
Equities          Downturn       -8.59              -11.82          -7.37    -34.79          -50.55       -22.62
                  Expansion      10.62                9.98           5.50     10.84           12.28         9.84
Fixed income      Downturn       15.42               12.20          15.08     10.03           18.24        14.20
                  Expansion       3.86                3.69           2.05      4.80            0.66         3.01
Currencies        Downturn       -6.68               -9.06         -16.70      2.70          -21.15       -10.18
                  Expansion       1.96                4.05           4.81     -0.54            9.13         3.88

                                Energy       Agricultural /       Metals                                Average
                                                 Livestock
Commodities       Downturn          -35.13           -15.56        -31.59                                 -27.42
                  Expansion          12.25             3.27         15.06                                  10.19


    Table 8: The Returns across Regions During Carry Downturns and Expansions.




                   Mean    Static     Dynamic     % dynamic          Mean      Static    Dynamic       % dynamic

                              Global Equities                                     Commodities
Current carry     0.83%    0.01%     0.82%                99%        0.98%    0.35%   0.63%                 64%
Carry 1-12        0.55%    0.07%     0.48%                87%        1.08%    0.43%   0.66%                 60%

                           Global Fixed Income                                     Currencies
Current carry     0.43%    0.10%     0.33%                77%        0.44%    0.18%     0.26%               59%
Carry 1-12        0.25%    0.12%     0.14%                54%        0.35%    0.18%     0.17%               48%


  Table 9: Decomposing Carry Trade Returns into Static and Dynamic Components.


                                                      Total       Static    Dynamic      % dynamic
             Global equities         Downturn       -8.38%       -8.09%      -0.28%             3%
                                     Expansion       8.43%        2.33%       6.11%           72%
             Global fixed income     Downturn       -2.46%       -2.55%       0.09%            -4%
                                     Expansion       4.02%        2.11%       1.91%           48%
             Currencies              Downturn      -19.59%      -11.52%      -8.07%           41%
                                     Expansion       8.56%        4.14%       4.42%           52%
             Commodities             Downturn       -8.75%       -4.63%      -4.12%           47%
                                     Expansion      12.95%        8.44%       4.51%           35%

                                                     Total        Static    Dynamic      % dynamic
             Average                 Downturn                                                 22%
                                     Expansion                                                52%


       Table 10: Return Decomposition during Carry Downturns and Expansions.




                                                     55
                                         Current carry   Carry1-12    Dividend yield
                   Mean                         0.75%       0.30%             0.46%
                   St.dev.                      3.02%       3.14%             3.17%
                   Skewness                       0.25       -0.35              0.06
                   SR                             0.87        0.33              0.50

                   Correlation matrix    Current carry   Carry1-12    Dividend yield
                   Current carry                 100%         41%                7%
                   Carry1-12                      41%        100%               29%
                   Dividend yield                  7%         29%             100%

                                         Current carry   Carry1-12
                   alphas                       8.70%       2.03%
                   beta                           0.07        0.28
                   IR                             0.83        0.19

Table 11: Using the Equity Carry or the Dividend Yield. The top panel reports the summary
statistics of three strategies using either the current carry, the carry1-12 or the dividend yield as the
signal.




        Cross-section of U.S. Treasuries                     Cross-section of U.S. Credit portfolios

 Summary statistics                     CC    C1-12      Summary statistics                      CC     C1-12
 Mean                                1.25%    1.36%      Mean                                 1.54%     1.75%
 St.dev.                             3.81%    3.88%      St.dev.                              4.21%     4.31%
 Skewness                              0.15     0.02     Skewness                              -0.03     -1.03
 SR (annualized)                       0.33     0.35     SR (annualized)                        0.37      0.41
 Market beta                           0.45     0.29     Market beta                            0.23      0.29
 IR (annualized)                       0.27     0.33     IR (annualized)                        0.28      0.30

 Predictive regressions                 CC    C1-12      Predictive regressions                  CC
 Predictive coefficient                1.13     1.02     Predictive coefficient                 4.64      4.44
 T-statistic                           1.72     1.68     T-statistic                            2.96      3.05
 R-squared                           0.86%    0.61%      R-squared                            3.98%     2.66%

 Decomposition carry returns            CC    C1-12      Decomposition carry returns              CC    C1-12
 Returns during carry downturns      4.91%    4.97%      Returns during carry downturns       -2.03%   -0.23%
 Returns during carry expansions     1.18%    1.10%      Returns during carry expansions       2.15%    2.09%


  Table 12: Carry Strategies Based on the Cross-section of U.S. Treasuries and Credits.




                                                   56
               Summary statistics                Call options   Put options
               Mean                                     4.3%         14.6%
               St.dev.                                 50.4%         29.2%
               Skewness                                 -2.81         -1.74
               SR (annualized)                           0.30          1.73

               Predictive regressions            Call options   Put options
               Predictive coefficient                   -0.19          0.78
               T-statistic                              -0.27          2.09
               R-squared                               0.04%         2.39%

               Decomposition carry returns       Call options   Put options
               Returns during carry downturns            13%         -1.3%
               Returns during carry expansions            2%         18.0%


Table 13: Current-Carry Strategies Based on the Cross-section of U.S. Index Options.




                                           57
Figures




          58
                                                                   Panel A: Current Carry
                                                    Equities                                                                       Commodities
             2.5                                                                                   15
                             Cumulative returns
                             Cumulative carry
               2

                                                                                                   10
             1.5


               1
                                                                                                    5
             0.5


               0
                                                                                                    0
                      1990            1995            2000              2005          2010                      1985      1990          1995     2000    2005   2010



                                                  Fixed income                                                                      Currencies

               1
                                                                                                   1.5
             0.8

             0.6                                                                                    1

             0.4
                                                                                                   0.5
             0.2

               0
                                                                                                    0
            -0.2
               1992    1994    1996    1998   2000     2002      2004   2006   2008   2010               1985      1990          1995          2000     2005    2010




                                                                         Panel B: Carry1-12
                                                    Equities                                                                       Commodities


             1.5
                                                                                                    8


               1                                                                                    6


                                                                                                    4
             0.5

                                                                                                    2
                                                                         Cumulative returns
               0                                                         Cumulative carry
                                                                                                    0
                      1990            1995            2000              2005          2010                      1985      1990          1995     2000    2005   2010



                                                  Fixed income                                                                      Currencies
             0.6
                                                                                                   1.5
             0.5

             0.4
                                                                                                    1
             0.3

             0.2

             0.1                                                                                   0.5

               0

            -0.1                                                                                    0
            -0.2
               1992    1994    1996    1998   2000     2002      2004   2006   2008   2010               1985      1990          1995          2000     2005    2010




Figure 2: Cumulative Return and Cumulative Carry of the Global Carry Trades. The figure
shows the cumulative return on carry strategies and the cumulative carry for equities (top-left panel), fixed
income (bottom-left panel), commodities (top-right panel), and currencies (bottom-right panel). Panel A
uses the current carry to construct the carry trade and to compute the cumulative carry, whereas Panel
B uses carry1-12 for both of these. The sample period is February 1988 - February 2011 for equities,
October 1991 - February 2011 for fixed income, January 1980 - February 2011 for commodities, and
October 1983 - February 2011 for currencies.

                                                                                              59
                                Equities                                                                      Commodities
   1                                                                              1
                                              Significant correlation
                                              Insignificant correlation
 0.5                                                                            0.5



   0                                                                              0



-0.5                                                                           -0.5



 -1                                                                             -1
         1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010                            1985      1990          1995          2000    2005   2010



                              Fixed income                                                                    Currencies
   1                                                                              1



 0.5                                                                            0.5



   0                                                                              0



-0.5                                                                           -0.5



 -1                                                                             -1
        1995           2000                  2005                  2010                  1990          1995          2000          2005    2010




       Figure 3: Rolling Correlations of Carry Strategies with the Stock Market. The figure shows
       the 3-year rolling correlation between carry returns and the passive, equal-weighted strategy for equities
       (top-left panel), fixed income (bottom-left panel), commodities (top-right panel), and currencies (bottom-
       right panel). We use the current carry in the carry strategies. The sample period is February 1988 -
       February 2011 for equities, October 1991 - February 2011 for fixed income, January 1980 - February 2011
       for commodities, and October 1983 - February 2011 for currencies.




                                                                          60
                         Global equities                                              Commodities
 2.5                                                             0.8

   2
                                                                 0.6
 1.5
                                                                 0.4
   1

 0.5                                                             0.2

   0
                                                                   0
-0.5

 -1                                                             -0.2
       0        5        10           15   20       25                 0    5       10                15   20   25



                          Fixed Income                                                   Currencies
   2                                                             1.2

                                                                   1
 1.5
                                                                 0.8

   1                                                             0.6

                                                                 0.4
 0.5

                                                                 0.2
   0
                                                                   0

-0.5                                                            -0.2
       0        5        10           15   20       25                 0    5       10                15   20   25




       Figure 4: Carry Predicts Returns: Panel Regression. The figure shows the predictive coefficient
       (c) of panel regressions of the form ri,t+1 = a + bt + cCi,t+1−k + εi,t+1 (for k = 1, 3, 6, 12, and 24) for
       equities (top-left panel), fixed income (bottom-left panel), commodities (top-right panel), and currencies
       (bottom-right panel). We use the Carry1-12 to forecast future returns. The dashed lines indicate the
       95%-confidence interval, where the standard errors are clustered by time period. The sample period is
       February 1988 - February 2011 for equities, October 1991 - February 2011 for fixed income, January 1980
       - February 2011 for commodities, and October 1983 - February 2011 for currencies.




                                                           61
                             Cumulative Return Global Carry1-12 Strategy
          1

        0.8

        0.6

        0.4

        0.2


         1992     1994     1996      1998         2000   2002       2004        2006   2008   2010


                      Cumulative Return Global Carry1-12 Strategy, Detrended

                      Recession Asia and Continental Europe               Technology Crash
        0.2
       0.15
                                   Asian Crisis
        0.1
       0.05
          0
     -0.05
                                                              Great Recession
      -0.1

         1992     1994     1996      1998         2000   2002       2004        2006   2008   2010




Figure 5: Returns on the Global Carry1-12 Factor and Global Recessions. The figure shows the
cumulative return on the global carry1-12 factor in the top panel. We construct the global carry factor
by weighing the carry strategy of each asset classes by the inverse of the standard deviation of returns,
and scaling the weights so that they sum to one. The bottom panel displays the de-trended cumulative
return alongside the global recession dummy. We construct the global recession dummy by weighting
regional recession dummies by GDP. We de-trend the cumulative return series using a linear time trend.
We indicate the major recessions. The sample period is November 1991 to February 2011.




                                                         62
 0.2
                Recession Asia and Continental Europe
                                                                    Technology Crash
                                     Asian Crisis
 0.1


   0


-0.1

                                                                          Great Recession
-0.2
          Maximum drawdown GCF
          Global recession indicator
-0.3
   1992     1994       1996       1998       2000            2002     2004       2006       2008   2010


Figure 6: Draw-down Dynamics of the Global Carry1-12 Factor. The figure shows the
maximumPt draw-down dynamics P    of the global carry1-12 strategy. We define the draw down as:
                                    u
Dt ≡     s=1 rs − maxu∈{1,...,t}    s=1 rs , where rs denotes the return on the global carry1-12 strategy.
We construct the global carry factor by weighing the carry strategy of each asset classes by the inverse of
the standard deviation of returns, and scaling the weights so that they sum to one. The sample period
is November 1991 to February 2011.




                                                        63
                         Equities                                              Fixed income
    0                                                        0

                                                         -0.02
-0.05
                                                         -0.04
 -0.1
                                                         -0.06
        EQ Drawdowns    GCF Drawdowns
-0.15                                                    -0.08
           1995        2000      2005      2010                    1995        2000          2005     2010

                       Currencies                                              Commodities
    0                                                        0

                                                         -0.02
-0.05
                                                         -0.04

                                                         -0.06
 -0.1
                                                         -0.08
           1995        2000         2005   2010                    1995        2000          2005     2010



Figure 7: Draw-down Dynamics Per Asset Class.                        The figure shows the maximum
draw-down
       Pt   dynamics    of   the  global
                                  Pu      carry1-12    strategy.     We   define the draw down as:
Dt ≡     s=1 rs − maxu∈{1,...,t}    s=1 rs , where rs denotes the return on the global carry1-12 strategy.
We construct the global carry factor by weighing the carry strategy of each asset classes by the inverse of
the standard deviation of returns, and scaling the weights so that they sum to one. The sample period
is November 1991 to February 2011.




                                                    64
 0.08
                                                                                             DP
                                                                                             CC
                                                                                             C1-12
 0.06


 0.04


 0.02


    0


-0.02
          1950          1960           1970            1980        1990          2000           2010




    4
                                                                     DP (standardized)
    2                                                                CC (standardized)
    0

   -2

   -4
          1950          1960           1970            1980        1990          2000           2010

    4
                                                                     DP (standardized)
    2                                                                C1-12 (standardized)

    0

   -2
          1950          1960           1970            1980        1990          2000           2010


  Figure 8: Time-Series of the Equity Carry. The figure shows the time series of the equity carry for
  the US from January 1945 until December 2011.




                                                  65
