                                                                      Press Release

                 Short Term Traders lead CTA returns in February
              Year-to-date returns for all CTA indices remain in positive territory

London, 5th March 2015 -- Societe Generale Prime Services today announces the February
performance data for its Newedge CTA performance indices.

The Newedge Short-Term Traders Index led CTA performance in February, posting returns of
+0.14% - the seventh consecutive month of positive returns. The index is now up 3.31% for the
year-to-date.

Following six months of positive returns for all the Newedge CTA indices, February saw three of the
four managed futures indices calculated by Societe Generale Prime Services, report negative
performance. Despite this, all of Newedge’s CTA indices remain in positive territory for the year-to-
date.

The Newedge CTA Index remains in positive territory for the year-to-date with a performance of
+4.02% - but it fell slightly by -0.27% during the month of February.

Trend followers were flat in February, with the Newedge Trend Index slipping by 0.14%, however,
its performance for the year remains positive at 4.94% - the best of the four Newedge indices.

Performance attribution data from the Newedge Trend Indicator shows that positive returns from
long positions in equities contributed 2.58%. The positive trends observed from the currency and
bonds sectors during January were reversed in February and contributed negatively, 1.35% and
2.02% respectively. The positive returns in equities were further offset by a 2.78% reduction from
commodities.

James Skeggs, Global Head of Advisory Group at Societe Generale Prime Services, said:

“All good things have to come to an end, and after six months of very strong performance that led to
high watermarks for most CTAs, February saw small negative returns.

“CTAs still remain firmly in the black with each of the indices posting positive year-to-date returns.”


         Index                                          February Return         YTD Return


        Newedge CTA Index                                    -0.27%               +4.02%

        Newedge Trend Index                                  -0.14%               +4.94%

        Newedge Trend Indicator                              -3.72%               +4.45%

        Newedge Short-Term Traders Index                     +0.14%               +3.31%

The Newedge CTA Index, which is weighted, calculates the daily rate of return for a pool of the
largest 20 CTAs that are willing to provide daily returns and are open to new investment. Both
indices are rebalanced and reconstituted annually.
The Newedge Trend Index, which is weighted, calculates the daily rate of return for a pool of the
largest 10 trend following-based CTAs that are willing to provide daily returns and are open to new
investment.

The Newedge Trend Indicator is a market based performance indicator designed to have a high and
stable correlation to the returns of trend following strategies.

The Newedge Short-Term Traders Index is designed to track the daily performance of a portfolio of
the largest 10 short-term, diversified CTAs that have a holding period shorter than 10 days, are
willing to provide daily returns and are open to new investment.

Newedge’s Alternative Investment Solutions Group, part of Societe Generale Prime Services, is an
innovator in providing investors with benchmarking tools that represent key hedge fund strategy
styles.

                                                                   ###
Press contacts:

•         Global: Murray Parker, +44 20 7676 6771, murray.parker@sgcib.com
•         PR Europe: Marina Jané Sánchez, +44 203 219 8811, marina.jane-sanchez@capitalmsl.com
•         PR Americas: Michael Gelormino, +1 212 909 4780, mgelormino@intermarket.com
•         PR Asia: Sean Pattwell, +852 3768 4543, Sean.Pattwell@fticonsulting.com

Societe Generale

Societe Generale is one of the largest European financial services groups. Based on a diversified universal banking model, the Group
combines financial solidity with a strategy of sustainable growth, and aims to be the reference for relationship banking, recognised on its
markets, close to clients, chosen for the quality and commitment of its teams.
Societe Generale has been playing a vital role in the economy for 150 years. With more than 148,000 employees, based in 76 countries,
we accompany 32 million clients throughout the world on a daily basis. Societe Generale’s teams offer advice and services to individual,
corporate and institutional customers in three core businesses:

    Retail banking in France with the Societe Generale branch network, Credit du Nord and Boursorama, offering a comprehensive
    range of multichannel financial services on the leading edge of digital innovation;

    International retail banking, financial services and insurance with a presence in emerging economies and leading specialised
    businesses;

    Corporate and investment banking, private banking, asset management and securities services, with recognised expertise,
    top international rankings and integrated solutions.

Societe Generale is included in the main socially responsible investment indices: FTSE4Good (Global and Europe), Euronext Vigeo
(Global, Europe, Eurozone and France), ESI Excellence (Europe) from Ethibel and 4 of the STOXX ESG Leaders indices.

For more information, you can follow us on twitter @societegenerale or visit our website www.societegenerale.com

Societe Generale Corporate & Investment Banking

At the core of Societe Generale’s universal banking business model, the Corporate & Investment Bank is a well-diversified and leading
player with nearly 10 500 professionals present in more than 31 countries across Europe, the Americas and Asia-Pacific.

Standing by its clients across sectors, the Corporate & Investment Bank tailors solutions for them by capitalising on its worldwide
expertise in investment banking, global finance, and global markets.

     For Corporates, Financial Institutions and Public Sector: providing a global advisory approach (M&A, debt, equity transaction,
     capital structure, and asset & liability management), as well as quality capital raising solutions across the debt and equity spectrum,
     optimised financing and expert risk management responses notably in the realm of foreign exchange and rates derivatives.
     For Investors: offering reliable and sound investment opportunities and risk management solutions through its integrated global
     markets platform delivering seamless access to markets (equity, rates, credit, currencies, commodities and derivatives), as well as
     advice and solid financial engineering, quality of execution – both Agency and principal-, forward-looking research across asset
     classes, an industry-leading clearing proposition and prime brokerage services. www.sgcib.com
Prime Services

Societe Generale Prime Services part of the Global Markets’ division of Societe Generale Corporate & Investment Banking is the bank’s
prime brokerage business, offering a unique combination of execution, clearing, custody and financing services. It is truly multi-asset and
multi-instrument across Listed Derivatives, Equities (Cash/synthetic), FX, Fixed Income and OTC Cleared. As a firm offering world leading
derivatives brokerage services, unrivalled access to 125+ markets and exchange venues, Societe Generale Prime Services provides its
clients an extensive pool of liquidity and tailored value added services.


IMPORTANT DISCLAIMERS:

This document is for information purposes only, subject to change without notice and is not to be construed as an offer to buy or sell any futures,
securities or other financial instruments.

All information, prices or projections contained herein are subject to change without notice. SG Newedge UK Limited and its affiliates make no
representation or warranty that the information contained herein is accurate, complete, fair or correct or that any financial instrument, transaction
or trading or investment strategy is appropriate for any person and it should not be relied on as such. SG Newedge UK Limited and its affiliates have
not performed any detailed review or examination to confirm that the rate of return information herein provided by the CTAs is accurate. The
opinions, views and forecasts expressed herein reflect the personal views of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of SG Newedge UK
Limited or any of its affiliates. The indices and other financial products and investments described herein are subject to fluctuations in price and/or
value and investors may get back less than originally invested. Certain high-volatility investments can be subject to sudden and large declines in value
that could equal or exceed the amount invested. Futures and options, as well as certain other financial instruments, are speculative products and the
risk of loss can be substantial. Consequently, only risk capital should be used to trade futures and options and other speculative products. Investors
should fully understand the risks and potential losses and seek their own independent investment and trading advice having regard to their
objectives, financial situation and needs. This information is not intended to be construed as investment advice or a recommendation to pursue any
trading or investment strategy. SG Newedge UK Limited and its affiliates do not accept any liability or loss or damage arising from any inaccuracy or
omission in or the use of or reliance on the information in this document. Any forecasts including in this communication are for illustrative purposes
only and are not to be relied upon as advice or interpreted as a recommendation. SG Newedge UK Limited and its affiliates accept no liability for any
direct, indirect, incidental or consequential damages or losses arising from the use of this communication or its content. This communication is not to
be construed as providing investment services in any jurisdiction where the provision of such services would be illegal.

If this communication is generated by or on behalf of SG Americas Securities, LLC and includes an analysis of the price or market for any derivatives, it
should be construed as a solicitation to enter into a derivatives transaction for the sole purpose of CFTC Rule 1.71(a)(9).

SG Newedge UK Limited and its affiliates do and seek to do business with companies and other entities that may be covered in this communication.
As a result, investors should be aware that SG Newedge UK Limited and its affiliates might have a conflict of interest. For the avoidance of doubt,
investors should note that this communication is not objective and is a marketing communication as defined by the Markets in Financial Instruments
Directive (“MiFID”). For more details, see MiFID policies on our website at www.newedge.com.

Due to international regulations not all financial instruments/services may be available to all clients. You should be aware of and observe any such
restrictions when considering a potential investment decision.

The opinions and views expressed in this communication reflect the personal views of the author(s), are subject to change without notice and do not
necessarily reflect the views of SG Newedge UK Limited or its affiliates. SG Newedge UK Limited, its affiliates, and its and their respective officers,
directors and employees may from time to time have positions, make markets or effect transactions in any investment or related investment covered
by this communication. All information, as well as references to prices and yields are subject to change without notice. Past results are not
necessarily an indication of future performance.

Please note that this analysis or communication is not meant for distribution to retail clients domiciled in Singapore (i.e., a person who is not an
accredited investor, expert investor or institutional investor as defined under the Financial Advisers Act). For matters relating to this analysis or
communication, Singapore recipients should contact their Singapore Account Executive.

This communication is issued solely to major US institutional investors pursuant to SEC Rule 15a-6.

THE DISTRIBUTION OF THIS DOCUMENT IN CERTAIN JURISDICTIONS MAY BE PROHIBITED OR RESTRICTED BY LAW, AND PERSONS INTO WHOSE
POSSESSION THIS COMMUNICATION COMES SHOULD INFORM THEMSELVES ABOUT AND OBSERVE ANY SUCH PROHIBITION OR RESTRICTIONS. BY
ACCEPTING THIS COMMUNICATION YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE FOREGOING.

SG Newedge UK Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). SG Newedge UK Limited does not deal with, or for,
Retail Clients (as defined under MiFID and FCA rules). SG Newedge UK Limited is a Swap Dealer registered with the CFTC and NFA. Not all products or
services are available from SG Newedge UK Limited or its personnel. If necessary, please consult our local office for details.
