Risk Preferences and the Macroeconomic Announcement
                       Premium

                                 Hengjie Ai and Ravi Bansal ∗

                                         January 28, 2018


This paper develops a revealed preference theory for the equity premium around
macroeconomic announcements. Stock returns realized around pre-scheduled macroeconomic
announcements, such as the employment report and the FOMC statements, account for
55% of the market equity premium. We provide a characterization theorem for the set
of intertemporal preferences that generates a non-negative announcement premium. Our
theory establishes that the announcement premium identifies a significant deviation from
time-separable expected utility and provides asset-market-based evidence for a large class of
non-expected utility models. We also provide conditions under which asset prices may rise
prior to some macroeconomic announcements and exhibit a pre-announcement drift.




JEL Code: D81, G12
Key words: equity premium, announcement, Knightian uncertainty, robustness


   ∗
    Hengjie Ai (hengjie@umn.edu) is aﬃliated with the Carlson School of Management, University of
Minnesota, and Ravi Bansal (ravi.bansal@duke.edu ) is at the Fuqua School of Business, Duke University and
NBER. The authors would like to thank Anmol Bhandari, Jaroslav Borovička, V.V. Chari, Anna Cieslak,
Anisha Ghosh, Lars Hansen, John Heaton, Peter Klibanoﬀ, Lars Lochstoer, Monika Piazzesi, Jacob Sagi,
Martin Schneider, Jan Werner, Mungo Wilson, and Stanley Zin; participants at the Adam Smith Asset
Pricing Workshop, AFA 2017, the ASU Sonoran Winter Finance Conference, CITE 2017, NBER Neemrana,
and SED 2016; and seminar participants at the Duke Finance workshop, HKU, HKUST, SAIF, SMU, NTU,
NUS, the University of Minnesota Economic Theory workshop, University of Texas at Austin, and University
of Toronto for their helpful comments on the paper.
1       Introduction
In this paper, we develop a revealed preference theory for the risk premium for pre-scheduled
macroeconomic announcements. We demonstrate that the premium around macroeconomic
announcements provides asset-market-based evidence that establishes the importance of
incorporating non-expected utility analysis in macro and asset pricing models.
    Macroeconomic announcements, such as the release of the employment report and the
Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) statements, resolve uncertainty about the future
course of the macroeconomy, and therefore asset prices react to these announcements
instantaneously. Empirically, a large fraction of the market equity premium is realized within
a small number of trading days with significant macroeconomic announcements. In the 1961-
2014 period, during the thirty days per year with significant macroeconomic announcements,
the cumulative excess returns of the S&P 500 index averaged 3.36%, which accounts for 55% of
the total annual equity premium of 6.19%. The average return on days with macroeconomic
announcements is 11.2 basis points (bps), which is significantly higher than the 1.27 bps
average return on non-announcement days. High-frequency-data-based evidence shows that
much of this premium is realized within hourly windows around announcements, or within a
few trading hours prior to the announcements.
    To understand the above features of the financial markets, we develop a theoretical model
that allows macroeconomic announcements to carry information about the prospect of future
economic growth. In this setup, we characterize the set of intertemporal preferences for the
representative consumer under which macroeconomic announcements are associated with
realizations of the market equity premium.
    Throughout the paper, we focus on a representative-agent model and assume
that aggregate consumption does not instantaneously respond to the macroeconomic
announcements, whereas asset prices do. This assumption is well motivated because the
announcement returns are realized in hourly windows around the announcements and the
consumption response, if any, at this frequency is not likely to be significant enough to
rationalize the magnitude of the premium.1
   We follow Strzalecki (2013) and consider intertemporal preferences that can be represented
recursively as Vt = u (Ct ) + βI [Vt+1 ] , where u maps current-period consumption into utility,
and I maps the next-period continuation utility into its certainty equivalent. Our main
result is that announcements are associated with realizations of the premium if and only
    1
    This assumption, as further discussed in section 3.1, is also consistent with the empirical findings that
consumption does not co-move contemporaneously with the stock market return (e.g., see Hall (1978)).


                                                     1
if the certainty equivalent functional, I, is non-decreasing with respect to second-order
stochastic dominance, a property we define as generalized risk sensitivity. This theorem
has two immediate implications. First, intertemporal preferences have a time-separable
expected utility representation if and only if the announcement premium is zero for all assets.
Second, announcement premiums must be compensation for generalized risk sensitivity in
the certainty equivalent functional, I, and not compensation for the risk aversion of the Von
Neumann–Morgenstern utility function, u.
   The macroeconomic announcement premium, therefore, provides asset-market-based
evidence that identifies a key aspect of investors’ preferences not captured by the time-
separable expected utility. Non-expected utilities, such as the recursive utility (Kreps
and Porteus (1978), Epstein and Zin (1989)), the maximin expected utility (Gilboa and
Schmeidler (1989)), the robust control model (Hansen and Sargent (2007)), and the smooth
ambiguity model (Klibanoﬀ, Marinacci, and Mukerji (2005)), among others, are widely
applied in asset pricing studies to enhance the model-implied market price of risk. We show
that generalized risk sensitivity is the key property of these models that distinguishes their
asset pricing implications from expected utility. The large magnitude of the announcement
premium in the data can be interpreted as strong empirical evidence for a broad class of
non-expected utility models.
    From an asset pricing perspective, the stochastic discount factor under non-expected
utility generally has two components: the intertemporal marginal rate of substitution that
appears in standard expected utility models and an additional term that can often be
interpreted as the density of a probability distortion. We demonstrate that the probability
distortion component is a valid stochastic discount factor for announcement returns. In
addition, under diﬀerentiability conditions, generalized risk sensitivity is equivalent to the
probability distortion being pessimistic; that is, it assigns higher weights to states with low
continuation utility and lower weights to states with high continuation utility. Our results
imply that the empirical evidence of the announcement premium is informative about the
relative importance of the two components of the stochastic discount factor for quantitative
asset pricing models. We find that the Sharpe ratio on announcement days is significantly
higher than that on non-announcement days. Therefore, a substantial fraction of the volatility
of the stochastic discount factor must come from generalized risk sensitivity.
    Generalized risk sensitivity is precisely the property of preferences that requires a risk
compensation for news. The long-run risks literature typically uses the Epstein and Zin
(1989) utility with a preference for early resolution of uncertainty to generate a risk premium
for news shocks. We show that preference for early resolution of uncertainty is not a necessary

                                              2
condition for generalized risk sensitivity and provide examples of preferences that require a
compensation for news shocks but do not exhibit a preference for early resolution.
   Our theoretical framework also provides an explanation for the diﬀerence between
the timing of the realization of the premiums for FOMC announcements and that for
other macroeconomic announcements. Using high-frequency data, Lucca and Moench
(2015) document a pre-announcement drift for FOMC announcements, but not for other
macroeconomic announcements. Specifically, equity premiums start to materialize a few
hours prior to the oﬃcial FOMC announcements, but there is no such pattern in other
announcements. Our theorem implies the existence of a pre-announcement drift if investors
receive informative signals before the announcements. Based on this idea, we present a
continuous-time model to account for the pre-announcement drift in FOMC announcements
and its absence in other macroeconomic announcements.
    Our theoretical framework does not allow for several models of time-non-separable utilities
widely applied in the asset pricing literature, so we study them separately. We establish that
the external habit model of Campbell and Cochrane (1999) generates a zero announcement
premium, and the internal habit model of Constantinides (1990) and Boldrin, Christiano, and
Fisher (2001) produces a negative announcement premium. The consumption substitutability
model of Dunn and Singleton (1986) and Heaton (1993) is consistent with a positive
announcement premium, although this feature of the utility function smooths the marginal
utility process and has diﬃculty in accounting for many aspects of the asset market data, as
highlighted in Gallant, Hansen, and Tauchen (1990).


    Related literature Our paper builds on the literature that studies decision-making
under non-expected utility. We adopt the general representation of dynamic preferences
of Strzalecki (2013). Our framework includes most of the non-expected utility models in
the literature as special cases. We show that examples of dynamic preferences that satisfy
generalized risk sensitivity include the maxmin expected utility of Gilboa and Schmeidler
(1989); its dynamic version studied by Chen and Epstein (2002) and Epstein and Schneider
(2003); the recursive preference of Kreps and Porteus (1978) and Epstein and Zin (1989);
the robust control preference of Hansen and Sargent (2005, 2007) and the related multiplier
preference of Strzalecki (2011); the variational ambiguity-averse preference of Maccheroni,
Marinacci, and Rustichini (2006a,b); the smooth ambiguity model of Klibanoﬀ, Marinacci,
and Mukerji (2005, 2009); the disappointment aversion preference of Gul (1991); and the
recursive smooth ambiguity preference of Hayashi and Miao (2011). We also discuss the
relationship between our notion of generalized risk sensitivity and the related decision


                                              3
theoretic concepts, such as uncertainty aversion and preference for early resolution of
uncertainty.
    A vast literature applies the above non-expected utility models to the study of asset
prices and the equity premium. We refer the readers to Epstein and Schneider (2010) for a
review of asset pricing studies with the maxmin expected utility model; Ju and Miao (2012)
for an application of the smooth ambiguity-averse preference; Hansen and Sargent (2008)
for the robust control preference; Routledge and Zin (2010) for an asset pricing model with
disappointment aversion; and Bansal and Yaron (2004), Bansal (2007), and Hansen, Heaton,
and Li (2008) for the long-run risks model that builds on recursive preferences. Skiadas (2009)
provides an excellent textbook treatment of recursive-preferences in asset pricing theory.
    Unlike the calibration methodology used in the above papers, our paper takes a revealed
preference approach. Earlier work on the revealed preference approach for expected utility
includes Green and Srivastava (1986) and Epstein (2000). More recently, Kubler, Selden, and
Wei (2014) and Echenique and Saito (2015) develop asset-market-based characterizations
of the expected utility model. None of the above papers focus on the macroeconomic
announcement premium and generalized risk sensitivity.
    Quantitatively, our findings are consistent with the literature that identifies large
variations in marginal utilities from the asset market data (see, e.g., Hansen and Jagannathan
(1991), Bansal and Lehmann (1997), and Alvarez and Jermann (2004, 2005)). Our theory
implies that most of the variations in marginal utility must come from generalized risk
sensitivity and not from risk aversion of the Von Neumann–Morgenstern utility function.
This observation likely has sharp implications for the research on macroeconomic policies.
Several recent papers study optimal policy design problems in non-expected utility models.
For example, Farhi and Werning (2008) and Karantounias (2015) analyze optimal fiscal
policies with recursive preferences, and Woodford (2010), Karantounias (2013), Hansen and
Sargent (2012), and Kwon and Miao (2013b,a) focus on preferences that are averse to model
uncertainty. In the above studies, the non-linearity in agents’ certainty equivalent functionals
implies a forward-looking component of variations in their marginal utilities that aﬀects policy
makers’ objectives. Our results imply that the empirical evidence of the announcement
premium can be used to gauge the magnitude of this deviation from expected utility and to
quantify the importance of robustness in the design of macroeconomic policies.
   Our empirical results are related to the previous research on stock market returns on
macroeconomic announcement days. This literature documents that stock market returns
and Sharpe ratios are significantly higher on days with macroeconomic news releases in the
United States (Savor and Wilson (2013)) and internationally (Brusa, Savor, and Wilson

                                               4
(2015)). Lucca and Moench (2015) find similar patterns and document a pre-FOMC
announcement drift. Mueller, Tahbaz-Salehi, and Vedolin (2017) document an FOMC
announcement premium on the foreign exchange market and attribute it to compensation to
financially constrained intermediaries.
   The rest of the paper is organized as follows. We document some stylized facts for the
equity premium for macroeconomic announcements in Section 2. In Section 3, we present
two simple examples to illustrate how the announcement premium can arise in models that
deviate from expected utility. We present our theoretical results and discuss the notion of
generalized risk sensitivity in Section 4. We present a continuous-time model in Section 5
to quantitatively account for the evolution of the equity premium around macroeconomic
announcement days. Section 6 concludes.



2    Stylized facts
To demonstrate the significance of the equity premium for macroeconomic announcements
and to highlight the diﬀerence between announcement days and non-announcement days,
we focus on a relatively small set of pre-scheduled macroeconomic announcements that
are released at monthly or lower frequencies. Within this category, we select the top five
announcements ranked by investor attention by Bloomberg users. This procedure yields, on
average, thirty announcement days per year for the period of 1961-2014. We summarize our
main findings below and provide details about the data construction in Appendix A.

 (i) A large fraction of the market equity premium is realized on a relatively small number
     of trading days with pre-scheduled macroeconomic announcements.
     In Table I, we report the average market excess returns on macroeconomic
     announcement days and non-announcement days during the 1961-2014 period. In
     this period, on average, thirty trading days per year have significant macroeconomic
     announcements. At the daily level, the average stock market excess return is 11.21
     bps on announcement days and 1.27 bps on days without major macroeconomic
     announcements. As a result, the cumulative stock market excess return on the thirty
     announcement days averages 3.36% per year, accounting for about 55% of the annual
     equity premium (6.19%) during this period.
     In Table II, we report the average market excess return on announcement days (0) and
     the same moments for the market return on the day before (-1) and the day after (+1)


                                            5
       announcement days. The diﬀerence in mean returns between announcement days and
       non-announcement days is statistically and economically significant with a t-statistic
       of 3.36. This evidence is consistent with the previous literature (see e.g., Savor and
       Wilson (2013)).

(ii) Most of the premiums for FOMC announcements are realized in several hours prior to
     the announcements. Premiums for other macroeconomic announcements are realized
     upon the release of these announcements.
       In Table III, we report the point estimates with standard errors for average hourly
       excess returns around announcements. We normalize the announcement time as hour
       zero. For k = −5, −4, · · · , 0, +1, +2, the announcement window k in the table is defined
       as hour k − 1 to hour k. The hourly returns typically peak at the announcement, as
       reflected in row 1 of the table. The mean return during the announcement hour is
       economically important: 6.46 bps with a standard error of 2.71. The diﬀerence in mean
       excess returns in announcement hours compared to non-announcement hours, like in
       the daily returns data, is significant with a t-statistic of 2.06. In the case of FOMC
       announcements, consistent with Lucca and Moench (2015), the mean returns prior to
       the announcement window are statistically significant (see row 2 of Table III); this pre-
       announcement drift is not reflected in other macroeconomic announcements, as shown
       in row 3 of Table III. In Figure 1, we plot the average hourly stock market excess
       returns for FOMC announcements (top panel) and those for other macroeconomic
       announcements (bottom panel) in the hours around the announcements. There is a
       “pre-announcement drift” for FOMC announcements, but not for other macroeconomic
       announcements. The premiums for non-FOMC announcements are mainly realized at
       the announcement.2
       In addition, Lucca and Moench (2015) document that there is no statistically significant
       pre-FOMC announcement drift for Treasury bonds in the 1994-2011 period, and Savor
       and Wilson (2013) present evidence of a moderate level of announcement premiums for
       Treasury bonds, which averages about 3 bps on announcement days during the longer
       sample period of 1961-2009.
 2
     The evidence reported in Table III is robust to using 30-minute windows as opposed to hourly windows.




                                                    6
                       Figure 1. Hourly return around announcements


                                       Hourly excess return around announcements: FOMC
                               20


                               10


                                0


                               -10
                                        -5    -4     -3    -2       -1   0   1      2

                                     Hourly excess return around announcements: non-FOMC
                               10


                                5


                                0


                                -5
                                        -5    -4     -3    -2       -1   0   1      2




Figure 1 plots the average hourly excess returns around macro announcements for the period of 1997-2013.
The top panel is for FOMC announcements and the bottom panel includes all other macro announcements.
The horizontal axis marks announcement windows, and the vertical axis is the average hourly excess return
for the announcement windows, measured in basis points. We normalize the announcement time to hour
zero. For k = −5, −4, · · · , 0, 1, 2, announcement window k is defined as the interval between hour k − 1
and hour k.


3     Intuition from a two-period setup
In this section, we use a two-period setup to illustrate intuitively the conditions under which
resolutions of uncertainty are associated with realizations of the equity premium and to
motivate the key ingredients in the fully dynamic model, which we formally develop in Section
4.


3.1     Asset market for announcements

We consider a representative-agent economy with two periods, 0 and 1. Period 0 has
no uncertainty and the aggregate consumption is a known constant, C0 . The aggregate
consumption in period 1, denoted by C1 , is a random variable. We assume a finite number
of states: n = 1, 2, · · · N and denote the possible realizations of C1 as {C1 (n)}n=1,2,···N and
the possible realizations of asset payoﬀ as {X (n)}n=1,2,···N . The probability of each state is
π (n) > 0 for n = 1, 2, · · · , N .



                                                                7
    Period 0 is further divided into two subperiods. In period 0− , before any information
about C1 is revealed, the pre-announcement market opens and asset prices at this point
are called pre-announcement prices and are denoted by P − . P − cannot depend on the
realization of C1 , which is unknown at this point. In period 0+ , the agent receives an
announcement s that carries information about C1 . Immediately after the announcement,
the post-announcement asset market opens. The post-announcement asset prices depend on
s and are denoted by P + (s). In period 0+ , prices are denominated in current date-and-
state-contingent consumption units, and the agent makes both optimal consumption and
investment decisions given prices. In period 0− , there is only investment decisions but no
consumption decision. We denominate asset prices at 0− in units of consumption goods
delivered non-contingently in period 0+ .
   For simplicity, we assume that announcements fully reveal the true state, that is,
s ∈ {1, 2, · · · , N }, although this assumption is not necessary in the fully dynamic model we
develop in Section 4. In addition, we assume complete markets and diﬀerentiability of utility
functions, so that Arrow-Debreu prices can be computed from marginal rates of substitution.
In Figure 2, we illustrate the timing of information and consumption (top panel) and that of
asset prices (bottom panel), assuming N = 2.3
    The announcement return of an asset, denoted by RA (s), is defined as the return of a
strategy that buys the asset before the pre-scheduled announcement and sells immediately
afterwards (assuming no dividend payment at 0+ ):

                                                    P + (s)
                                           RA (s) =         .                                         (1)
                                                     P−
The risk-free announcement return is the announcement return on an asset that delivers one
unit of state-non-contingent consumption in period 0+ . Because of our choice of consumption
numeraire, the risk-free announcement return must be one by no arbitrage. We say that an
asset requires a positive announcement premium if E [RA (s)] > 1. We also define the post-
announcement return conditioning on announcement s as RP (X| s) = PX(s)  + (s) .


   The assumption of the absence of a consumption decision at time 0− and our choice of
the consumption numeraire guarantees a zero risk-free announcement return and simplify our
analysis. Allowing consumption at 0− implies that the risk-free announcement return is in
general diﬀerent from one but does not aﬀect our analysis of the announcement premium
   3
    We provide details of the Arrow-Debreu market setup Section S. 1 of the Supplemental Material and
formally establish that the Arrow-Debreu setup leads to the same asset pricing equations as the sequential
market setup, which is a more convenient modeling choice for the fully dynamic model in Section 4.



                                                    8
           Figure 2. consumption and asset prices in the two-period model




as long as consumption at 0+ does not depend on the content of the announcements.
The key element of our assumption is that the arrival of announcements is not associated
with a resolution of uncertainty about current-period consumption, but with that of future
consumption.
    We note two important properties of announcements in our model. First, announcements
aﬀect the conditional distribution of future consumption, but rational expectations imply
that surprises in announcements must average to zero by the law of iterated expectation.
Second, as mentioned above, we make the simplifying assumption that consumption does
not instantaneously respond to macroeconomic announcements. This captures the well-
established empirical findings of Hall (1978) and Parker and Julliard (2005), among
others, that contemporaneous consumption co-move very little with stock market returns.
Additionally, Bansal and Shaliastovich (2011) document that even large movements in
stock prices are not associated with any significant immediate adjustment in aggregate
consumption. This lack of contemporaneous covariance of stock returns and consumption
implies that the contribution of the consumption covariance with asset returns over very
short intervals (daily and hourly), if any, is too small to aﬀect the observed announcement
premiums discussed in Section 2.
   The assumption that consumption does not instantaneously respond to macroeconomic
announcements is also well motivated from the perspective of production-based models,


                                            9
where consumption is endogenous. In standard production-based models, the response of
consumption to news is generally quantitatively small and yields a negative announcement
premium. The response of consumption is quantitatively small because risk-averse agents
dislike large consumption adjustments over short intervals. Further, the announcement
premium that results, if at all, from the immediate response of consumption to news is,
in general, negative. In reality, it is diﬃcult to instantaneously adjust aggregate output upon
announcements. Beaudry and Portier (2004, 2014) show that if output cannot respond to
news, consumption and Tobin’s q (and therefore asset returns) typically move in opposite
directions regardless of whether the income or the substitution eﬀect dominates. As a
result, the negative co-movement of consumption and Tobin’s q contributes negatively to
the announcement premium. Our assumption, therefore, allows us to focus on the properties
of preferences that generates a positive announcement premium.


3.2     Simple examples

   Expected utility We first consider the case in which the representative agent has
expected utility:4 E [u (C0 (s)) + βu (C1 (s))], where u is strictly increasing and continuously
diﬀerentiable.5 The period 0− price of one unit of period 1 consumption goods, which is
measured in units of period 0+ state-non-contingent consumption goods, can be computed
                                              ′
from the ratio of marginal utilities: π (s) βuu′(C 1 (s)) 6
                                                 (C0 )
                                                         . Therefore, the pre-announcement price
of an asset with payoﬀ {X (s)}N
                              s=1 is given by:
                                                 [                ]
                                         −      βu′ (C1 (s))
                                     P       =E              X (s) .                                     (2)
                                                  u′ (C0 )

In period 0+ , because s fully reveals the true state, the agent’s preference is represented by

                                         u (C0 (s)) + βu (C1 (s)) .                                      (3)
   4
     We use the term “expected utility” to mean utility functions that are additively separable with respect
to both time and states.
   5
     Because the decision for C0 is made at 0+ after the announcement is made, from the agent’s point of
view, C0 (s) is allowed to depend on s.
   6
     From the agent’s perspective, the marginal utility of one unit of period 0+ state non-contingent
consumption is E [u′ (C0 (s))]. In equilibrium, the market clearing condition implies that C0 (s) cannot
depend on s. Therefore, the expectation sign is not necessary: E [u′ (C0 (s))] = u′ (C0 ). In the rest of
this section, we will use the notation C0 (s) when describing preference to emphasize that individual agent’s
consumption choice is allowed to depend on s. In the expressions of stochastic discount factors, we will
impose market clearing and write C0 . Please see Section S. 1 in the Supplemental Material for a detailed
derivation.



                                                     10
As a result, for any s, the post-announcement price of the asset is

                                                 βu′ (C1 (s))
                                     P + (s) =                X (s) .                                  (4)
                                                   u′ (C0 )

                                                                        E [P + (s)]
Clearly, the expected announcement return is E [RA (s)] =                  P−
                                                                                      = 1. There can be no
announcement premium on any asset under expected utility.


  Robust control Consider an agent with the constraint robust control preference of
Hansen and Sargent (2001):

                           min       E [m (s) {u (C0 (s)) + βu (C1 (s))}] ,                            (5)
                         {m(s)}n
                               s=1

                              subject to : E [m (s) ln m (s)] ≤ η,
                                                   E [m (s)] = 1.

The above expression can also be interpreted as the maxmin expected utility of Gilboa and
Schmeidler (1989). The agent treats the reference probability measure, under which the
equity premium is evaluated (by econometricians), as an approximation. As a result, the
agent takes into account of a class of alternative probability measures, represented by the
density m, close to the reference probability measure, and evaluates utility using the worst-
case probability. The inequality E [m ln m] ≤ η requires that the relative entropy of the
alternative probability models is less than η.
   In this case, the pre-announcement price of an asset with payoﬀ {X (s)}N
                                                                          s=1 is:
                                         [                       ]
                                 −           ∗ βu′ (C1 (s))
                             P       = E m (s)              X (s) ,                                    (6)
                                                 u′ (C0 )

where m∗ is the density of the minimizing probability for (5) and can be expressed as a
function of s:                               u(C1 (s))
                                  ∗        e− θ
                                m (s) = [ u(C1 (s)) ] .                             (7)
                                         E e− θ

The positive constant in the above expression, θ, is determined by the binding relative entropy
constraint E [m∗ ln m∗ ] = η.
   In period 0+ , after the resolution of uncertainty, the agent’s utility reduces to (3). As a
result, the post-announcement price of the asset is the same as that in (4). Therefore, we


                                                    11
can write the pre-announcement price as:
                                                 [              ]
                                          P − = E m∗ (s) P + (s) .                             (8)

Because m∗ is a decreasing function of the period 1 utility u (C1 ), it is straightforward to
prove the following claim.

Claim 1. Consider post-announcement prices that are co-monotone with C1 (s), that is, ∀s
and s′ , C1 (s) ≥ C1 (s′ ) if and only if P (s) ≥ P (s′ ).7 Equation (8) implies P − ≤ E [P + (s)].
As a result, the announcement premium is non-negative.

    The intuition of the above result is clear. Because uncertainty is resolved after the
announcement, asset prices are discounted using marginal utilities. Under the expected
utility, the pre-announcement price is computed using probability-weighted marginal utilities,
and therefore the pre-announcement price must equal the expected post-announcement prices
and there can be no announcement premium under rational expectations. Under the robust
control preference, the pre-announcement price is not computed by using the reference
probability, but rather by using the pessimistic probability that overweighs low-utility states
and underweighs high-utility states as shown in equation (7). As a result, uncertainty aversion
applies extra discounting to payoﬀs positively correlated with utility, and therefore the asset
market requires a premium for such payoﬀs relative to risk-free returns.
   Because the probability distortion m∗ discounts announcement returns, we call it
the announcement stochastic discount factor (SDF), or A-SDF, to distinguish it from
the standard SDF derived from agents’ marginal rate of intertemporal substitution of
consumption. In our model, there is no intertemporal consumption decision before the
announcement at 0− . The term m∗ reflects investors’ uncertainty aversion and identifies
the probability distortion relative to rational expectation.


    Recursive utility The last example we discuss here is the recursive utility of Kreps and
Porteus (1978) and Epstein and Zin (1989) with constant elasticity of substitution (CES).
Because all uncertainties are fully resolved after the announcement, in period 0+ , the agent
first aggregates utility across time to compute continuation utility given announcement s:

                                      1        1
                                            1− ψ           1        1
                                                                 1− ψ
                                          C      (s) + β       C      (s) ,
                                    1 − ψ1 0             1 − ψ1 1
  7
      See also equation (21) for the definition of co-monotonicity.



                                                       12
where ψ is the intertemporal elasticity of substitution parameter. Before the announcement,
in period 0− , the agent computes the certainty equivalent of the continuation utility:8
                              { [{                       1−γ ]} 1−γ
                                                      } 1−1/ψ    1
                                      1           1
                                   1−          1−
                               E  C0 ψ (s) + βC1 ψ (s)              .                                           (9)


   Again, the period 0− Arrow-Debreu price of one unit of period 1 consumption goods can
                                                          [        ]− ψ1
be computed from the ratio of marginal utilities: m∗ (s) β CC1 (s)
                                                               0
                                                                         , where

                                               {     1        1
                                                                 } 1/ψ−γ
                                                                   1−1/ψ
                                                  1− ψ     1− ψ
                                                C0     + βC1 (s)
                               m∗ (s) =        [{                 } 1/ψ−γ ] .                                 (10)
                                                   1− 1    1− 1            1−1/ψ
                                           E      C0 ψ + βC1 ψ (s)


can be interpreted as A-SDF as in the case of the robust control preference. Clearly, m∗ is
a decreasing function of continuation utility if and only if γ > ψ1 , which coincides with the
condition for preference for early resolution of uncertainty for this class of preferences.9


3.3      A-SDF for general preferences

In this section, we provide an intuitive discussion of the A-SDF for general preferences in
the two-period setup. Because there is no uncertainty after the announcement at time
0+ , we assume that the agent ranks consumption streams according to a time-separable
utility function, and we denote the continuation utility conditioning upon announcement s
by Vs = u (C0 (s)) + βu (C1 (s)). At time 0− , prior to the announcement, the agent ranks
uncertain outcomes according to a general certainty equivalent functional I [V ], where I
maps random variables into the real line.10 Because there are N states of the world, we use
the vector notation V = [V1 , V2 , · · · , VN ] and think of I as a mapping from the N -dimensional
Euclidean space to the real line.
   8
      Here, we choose a convenient normalization of the recursive utility so that it fits the general representation
assumed in the theorems in Section 4. See also Section S. 1.3 in the Supplemental Material.
    9
      Note that the announcement leads uncertainty about C1 to resolve before its realization, which
corresponds to the case of early resolution of uncertainty in Kreps and Porteus (1978). See Section S.
1.3 in the Supplemental Material for a comparison between SDF computed from consumption plans with
early resolution of uncertainty and that with late resolution of uncertainty, respectively.
   10
      We follow Strzalecki (2013) and call I the certainty equivalent functional. However, we note that I [V ]
is measured in utility terms, not in consumption terms.



                                                        13
    To compute Arrow-Deberu prices, note that from the perspective of period 0− , the
marginal utility of one unit of state-non-contingent consumption delivered in period 0+ is
∑N ∂                 ′
   s=1 ∂Vs I [V ] · u (C0 ). The marginal utility of one unit of period 1 consumption good in
state s is ∂V∂ s I [V ] · βu′ (C1 (s)). The pre-announcement price of an asset can therefore be
computed as the marginal utility weighted payoﬀs:

                     ∑                                       [                        ]
               −
                      N   ∂
                         ∂Vs
                             I [V ] · βu′ (C1 (s))             ∗     u′ (C1 (s))
           P       =     ∑N ∂                       X (s) = E m (s) β ′          X (s) ,   (11)
                           s=1 ∂Vs I [V ] · u (C0 )
                                             ′                         u (C0 )
                     s=1


where
                                      ∗       1
                                                    ∂
                                                   ∂Vs
                                                       I [V ]
                                    m (s) =      ∑N ∂           .                          (12)
                                            π (s) s=1 ∂V I [V ]
                                                         s

Clearly, the asset pricing equation (8) holds with the A-SDF m∗ defined by (12).
   If we focus on assets with pro-cyclical payoﬀs, in the sense that they are increasing
functions of the representative agent’s continuation utility, Vs , then, as we show in Claim
1, a suﬃcient condition for a non-negative announcement premium is that m (s), and,
equivalently, ∂V∂ s I [V ] is co-monotone with respect to Vs . That is, for all s and s′ ,

                             ∂            ∂
                                I [V ] ≥      I [V ] if and only if Vs ≤ Vs′ .             (13)
                            ∂Vs          ∂Vs′

    Condition (13) is known to be a characterization of Schur concavity. Under the
assumption that all states occur with equal probabilities, that is, π (s) = N1 for s =
1, 2, · · · , N , the above property is equivalent to monotonicity with respect to second-order
stochastic dominance (see, e.g., Marshall, Arnold, and Olkin (2011) and Muller and Stoyan
(2002)). This is key insight of our paper: non-negative announcement premiums for payoﬀs
that are co-monotone with respect to continuation utility are equivalent to the certainty
equivalent functional being increasing in second-order stochastic dominance.
    In the following section, we formally develop the above results in a fully dynamic model
with a continuous probability space, which allows us to dispense with the assumptions of
fully revealing announcements and finite states with equal probabilities.




                                                   14
4      Risk preferences and the announcement premium

4.1      A dynamic model with announcements

     Preferences The setup of our model follows that of Strzalecki (2013), but we extend
his framework to allow for announcements. Let S be a non-atomic measurable space, and
Σ the associated Borel σ-field. Let (Ω, F) = (S, Σ)2T be the product space. We index
the 2T copies of (S, Σ) by j = 0+ , 1− , 1+ , 2− , · · · , T − 1+ , T − with the interpretation that
t− is the pre-announcement period at time t and t+ is the post-announcement period at
                                                                                    {          − + −                        −
                                                                                                                              }
time t. A typical element in Ω is therefore denoted by ω = s+                           0 , s1 , s1 , s2 , · · · , sT −1 , sT .
                                                                                                                    +
            {        − + −                     −
                                                        }       −
                                                                    { + − + −                                 −
                                                                                                                }
       +
Let zt−1  = s+  ,  s   , s   , s   , · · · , s    , s +
                                                          and z   =  s   , s   , s   , s   , · · · , s +
                                                                                                          , s      denote the
              0      1     1     2             t−1 t−1         t
                                                                  −
                                                                       0     1     1     2             t−1 t
                                                                                                                  ( + )
history of the realizations until t − 1 and until t , respectively. Let Ft−1 = σ zt−1 , and
                                                      +                                               +
          ( )
Ft− = σ zt− be the σ-fields generated by the history of realizations, for t = 1, 2, · · · T . The
           { +           }T
filtration Ft−1   , Ft− t=1 represents public information. We use Z to denote the set of all
histories, and let z ∈ Z denote a generic element of Z.
    We endow the measurable space (Ω, F) with a non-atomic probability measure P , under
                           {       − + −                          −
                                                                    }
which the distribution of s+  0 , s1 , s1 , s2 , · · · , sT −1 , sT
                                                          +
                                                                      is stationary. The interpretation is
that P is the probability measure under which all expected returns are calculated. We
assume that consumption takes value in Y, an open subset of R, endowed with the Borel
σ-field B. Let L2 (Ω, F, P ) be the Hilbert space of square-integrable real-valued random
                                                                        { }T
variables defined on (Ω, F, P ). A consumption plan is an Ft+ t=1 -adapted process {Ct }Tt=1 ,
such that Ct is a Y-valued square-integrable random variables for all t. C denotes the space
of all such consumption plans, and a typical element in C is denoted by C ∈ C.
                                                                                                { }T
    The aggregate endowment of the economy, denote as C̄ ∈ C is required to be Ft− t=1 -
adapted. As in the two-period model, individual consumption choices are allowed to be made
                                        {       }T
contingent on the announcements, s+         t−1 t=1 . However, announcements carry information
about future endowments but do not aﬀect current-period endowments. That is, ∀t, the
aggregate consumption C̄t , must be Ft− measurable. The above setup allows us to model
                                                                                               {     }T
announcements as revelations of public information associated with realizations of s+             t−1 t=1 ,
separately from the realizations of consumption. As a result, our theory is able to separate
the property of preferences that requires premiums for assets with a payoﬀ correlated with
resolutions of uncertainty from the property of preferences that demands excess returns for
assets that co-move with realizations of consumption.
    Strzalecki (2013) shows that most of the non-expected utility models can be represented



                                                             15
as
                                       Vt = u (Ct ) + βI [Vt+1 ] .                           (14)

Below, we adapt representation (14) to allow for announcements and describe a recursive
procedure to construct a system of conditional preferences, {%z }z∈Z on C, such that C %z C′
if Vz (C) ≥ Vz (C′ ). Formally, the representative agent’s dynamic preference is defined by a
triple {u, β, I}, where u : Y → R is a strictly increasing Von Neumann–Morgenstern utility
function, and β ∈ (0, 1] is the subjective discount rate. The certainty equivalent functional
I is a family of functions, {I [·| z]}z∈Z , such that ∀z ∈ Z, I [·| z] : L2 (Ω, F, P ) → R is a
(conditional) certainty equivalent functional that maps continuation utilities into the real
line. Given {u, β, I}, the agent’s utility function is constructed recursively as follows.

     • At the terminal time T , Vz− (C) = u (CT ).
                                   T


     • For t = 0, 1, 2, · · · T − 1, given Vzt+1
                                             −   (C), in period t after the signal st is revealed,
       Vzt+ (C) is calculated according to:
                                                           [                ]
                                Vzt+ (C) = u (Ct ) + βI Vzt+1
                                                          −   (C)     zt+       .            (15)


     • For t = 1, 2, 3, · · · T − 1, given a continuation utility Vzt+ (C), in period t before the
       signal st is received, Vzt− (C) is defined as
                                                    [            ]
                                        Vzt− (C) = I Vzt+ (C) zt− .                          (16)

       Here, there is no consumption decision at zt− before the signal st is received, and we
       simply use the certainty equivalent functional I to aggregate utility across states.

    In Section S. 2 of the Supplemental Material, we show that the above representation
incorporates the following dynamic preferences under uncertainty and provide expressions
for the A-SDF implied by these preferences:

 (i) The recursive utility of Kreps and Porteus (1978) and Epstein and Zin (1989).

 (ii) The maxmin expected utility of Gilboa and Schmeidler (1989). The dynamic version
      of this preference is studied in Epstein and Schneider (2003) and Chen and Epstein
      (2002).

(iii) The variational preferences of Maccheroni, Marinacci, and Rustichini (2006a), the
      dynamic version of which is studied in Maccheroni, Marinacci, and Rustichini (2006b).

                                                   16
 (iv) The multiplier preferences of Hansen and Sargent (2008) and Strzalecki (2011).

 (v) The second-order expected utility of Ergin and Gul (2009).

 (vi) The smooth ambiguity preferences of Klibanoﬀ, Marinacci, and Mukerji (2005), and
      Klibanoﬀ, Marinacci, and Mukerji (2009).

(vii) The disappointment aversion preference of Gul (1991).

(viii) The recursive smooth ambiguity preference of Hayashi and Miao (2011) can also be
       represented as (14) with some additional assumptions on the intertemporal aggregator.
       We discuss the A-SDF for this class of preferences in Section S. 2 of the Supplemental
       Material.


    Asset markets Because preferences are defined recursively, it is more convenient to
model the asset market as one with sequential trading. We assume that asset markets open
                                                               { }T
after each history z ∈ Z. We interpret the realizations of s+     t t=1 as announcements, because
they carry information about future consumption but are not associated with realizations of
current-period consumption. Markets at period t− are called pre-announcement markets.
                                                        {      (     )}                          (      )
Here, agents can trade a vector of J + 1 returns: RA,j ·| zt− j=0,1,··· ,J , where RA,j ·| zt−
represents an announcement-contingent return that is traded at history zt− and that pays oﬀ
      (      −
               )                              {(        )}                    {( − + )}
RA,j s+  t zt    at all subsequent histories zt− , s+ t     + (The notation
                                                           st
                                                                                 zt , st s+ denotes
                                                                                              t
the vector of histories for a fixed zt− and for all possible realizations of s+ after  z −
                                                                                           ).  Similarly,
                                                                {     ( + )}t           t
agents can trade a vector of post-announcement returns, RP,j ·| zt j=0,1,··· ,J on the post-
announcement market at history zt+ . In general, we use Rj (·| z) to denote the return on
asset j traded at history z ∈ Z with the understanding that it is an announcement return
if z is of the form zt− and a post-announcement return if z is of the form zt+ . We adopt the
convention that R0 (·| z) is the risk-free return at history z ∈ Z, and we write it as R0 (z)
whenever convenient.
   Given the recursive nature of the preferences, the optimal consumption-portfolio choice
problem of the agent can be solved by backward induction. For any z ∈ Z, we use Vz (W ) to
denote the agent’s continuation utility as a function of wealth at history z, and call them value
functions. We denote ξ = [ξ 0 , ξ 1 , ξ 2 , · · · ξ J ] as the vector of investment in the J + 1 securities
on the post-announcement asset market. In the last period T , agents simply consume their
total wealth, and therefore Vz− (W ) = u (W ). For t = 1, 2, · · · , T − 1, given Vzt+1       −  (W ), the
                                  T




                                                    17
                                                 −
value function at the history zt+ that precedes zt+1 can be constructed by
                                          {               [                   ]}
                          Vzt+ (W ) = max u (C) + βI Vzt+1     −  (W ′ ) zt+                  (17)
                                      C,ξ
                                              ∑J
                                        C+            ξj = W
                                                  j=0
                                    ∑J             (          )
                              W′ =        ξ j RP,j s− t+1 zt
                                                            +
                                                                , all s−t+1 .
                                        j=0


Similarly, given the post-announcement value function, Vzt+ (W ), the optimal portfolio choice
problem on the pre-announcement market is
                                                        [                 ]
                                                                ′
                              Vzt− (W ) = max I Vzt+ (W )           zt−                       (18)
                                           ζ
                              ∑J           ∑J           (       )
                     W′ = W −         ζj +      ζ j RA,j s+
                                                          t zt
                                                              −
                                                                  , all s+
                                                                         t ,
                                      j=0           j=0


where ζ = [ζ 0 , ζ 1 , ζ 2 , · · · ζ J ] is a vector of investment in announcement returns.
    Like in our two-period model, asset prices and wealth are measured in current-period
consumption goods on the post-announcement market (see equation (17)). On the pre-
announcement market, the agent makes portfolio allocation decisions, but not intertemporal
consumption choices. Prices on the pre-announcement market at history zt− are denominated
                                                                             (    )
in units of state-non-contingent consumption goods delivered at history zt− , · : as shown in
                                                                                        (         )
(18), one unit of wealth at history zt− , if not invested, becomes one unit of wealth at zt− , s+
                                                                                                t
for all s+
         t . Our convention implies that the return on the risk-free asset that pays one unit
of consumption goods non-contingently upon announcement must be one by no arbitrage:
   ( )
R0 zt− = 1 for all zt− .

{ We assume that          } for some initial wealth level, W0 and a sequence of returns
  {Rj (·| z)}j=0,1,··· ,J      , an interior competitive equilibrium with sequential trading exists
                           z∈Z
in which all markets clear. For simplicity, we start with returns directly in our description of
the equilibrium with the understanding that returns can always be constructed from prices.
Below, we provide a formal definition of the announcement premium.

Definition 1. Announcement premium:
   The announcement premium for asset j at history zt− is defined as
                                        [    (      )   ]
                                       E RA,j ·| zt− zt− − 1.




                                                   18
4.2        The announcement SDF

To relate the announcement premium to the properties of the certainty equivalent functional,
I [·], we first provide some definitions. The certainty equivalent functional I is said to be
monotone with respect to first-order (second-order) stochastic dominance if X1 ≥F SD X2
(X1 ≥SSD X2 ) implies that ∀z ∈ Z, I [X1 | z] ≥ I [X2 | z]. It is strictly monotone with respect
to first-order (second-order) stochastic dominance if X1 >F SD X2 (X1 >SSD X2 ) implies
that ∀z ∈ Z, I [X1 | z] > I [X2 | z], where ≥F SD and ≥SSD stand for first- and second-order
stochastic dominance, respectively.11 In what follows, we assume that I is normalized; that
is, I [X| z] = X a.s. whenever X is a measurable function of z.
    Conceptually, the property of asset prices imposes restrictions on the derivatives of utility
functions. Our theoretical exercise amounts to recovering the property of utility functions
from their derivatives and is related to the ”local utility” analysis in Machina (1982), Wang
(1993), and Ai (2005). In our setup, the certainty equivalent functional is a mapping from
L2 (Ω, F, P ) into the real line. We therefore need a notion of diﬀerentiability in infinite
dimensional spaces. We use ∥·∥ for the L2 norm on L2 (Ω, F, P ), and |·| for absolute value,
and we introduce the concept of Fréchet diﬀerentiability as follows.

Definition 2. Fréchet Diﬀerentiability with Lipschitz Derivatives:
   The certainty equivalent functional I is Fréchet diﬀerentiable if ∀z ∈ Z, ∀X ∈
L (Ω, F, P ), there exists a unique continuous linear functional, DI [X| z] ∈ L2 (Ω, F, P )
 2

such that for all ∆X ∈ L2 (Ω, F, P ),
                                                               ∫
                           I [ X + ∆X| z] − I [X| z] −             DI [X| z] · ∆XdP
                      lim                                                                = 0.
                    ∥∆X∥→0                     ∥∆X∥

   A Fréchet diﬀerentiable certainty equivalent functional I is said to have Lipschitz
derivatives if ∀X, Y ∈ L2 (Ω, F, P ), ∀z ∈ Z, ∥DI [X| z] − DI [Y | z]∥ ≤ K ∥X − Y ∥ for
some constant K.12

    Given a (conditional) certainty equivalent functional I [| z] and X ∈ L2 (Ω, F, P ), the
Fréchet derivative of I [| z] at X is a continuous linear functional on L2 (Ω, F, P ), which
has a unique representation in L2 (Ω, F, P ) by the Riesz representation theorem. In what
  11
       The definitions of first- and second-order stochastic dominance are standard and are provided in Appendix
B.1.
  12
    The definition of Fréchet diﬀerentiability requires the existence of the derivative as a continuous linear
functional. Because we focus on functions defined on the Hilbert space L2 (Ω, F, P ), we apply the Riesz
representation theorem and denote DI [ X| z] as the representation of the derivative in L2 (Ω, F, P ).


                                                        19
follows, we denote DI [ X| z] as (the Riesz representation of) the Fréchet derivative of I [| z]
                                                                    −
at X. To simplify notations, for any pre-announcement
                                                   (     ) history zt , and  any announcement
                   −
                                   (     −
                                           )                              ( − +)
st that follows zt , we denote V st zt ≡ Vzt+ Wzt+ , where zt = zt , st , and Wzt+ is
 +                                   +                               +
                                                                                        (      −
                                                                                                 )
the equilibrium level of wealth of the representative agent at history zt+ . That is, V s+ t zt
is the representative agent’s equilibrium continuation utility at announcement s+     t following
history zt− . The following theorem provides an existence result for the A-SDF.

Theorem 1. (Existence of an A-SDF) 13
    Suppose both u and I are Lipschitz continuous, Fréchet diﬀerentiable with Lipschitz
derivatives. Suppose that u has strictly positive first-order derivatives on its domain and I
is strictly monotone with respect to first-order stochastic dominance, then in any interior
competitive equilibrium with sequential trading, ∀zt− ∈ Z, there exists a non-negative
measurable function m∗ : R → R+ such that
             [  ( (       )) {     (      )   }   ]
            E m∗ V ·| zt−      RA,j ·| zt− − 1 zt− = 0 f or all                    j = 0, 1, 2, · · · J.     (19)
                                                      [  ( (      ))  ]
Under the regularity condition (54) in Appendix B.2, E m∗ V ·| zt− zt− = 1 and (19)
can be written as:
                 [  ( (      ))   (      )   ]
                E m∗ V ·| zt− RA,j ·| zt− zt− = 1 f or all                     j = 0, 1, 2, · · · J.         (20)


   To provide a precise statement about the sign of the announcement premium, we focus
                                                                           { (     −
                                                                                     )}
our attention on payoﬀs that are co-monotone with continuation utility. Let f s+
                                                                               t zt     s+
                                                                                         t
                               −                                                 +
be an asset traded at history zt with a payoﬀ contingent on the announcement st . The
payoﬀ f is said to be co-monotone with continuation utility if
       [ (      )   (        )] [ (   )   (        )]
        f s| zt− − f s′ | zt− V s| zt− − V s′ | zt− ≥ 0 for all s, s′ almost surely.                         (21)

Intuitively, co-monotonicity captures the idea that the payoﬀ f is non-decreasing in
continuation utility V . The following theorem formalizes our discussion in Section 3.3 and
provides necessary and suﬃcient conditions for the announcement premium.

Theorem 2. (Announcement Premium) Under the assumptions of Theorem 1,
  13
    To avoid overly technical conditions, we assume the Fréchet diﬀerentiability of I in Theorems 1 and 2.
The proofs in Appendix B remain valid under weaker conditions. In particular, we do not need the Fréchet
derivative of I [V ] to be unique, we only need the projection of the gradient, DI [V ] onto L2 (Ω, σ (V ) , P ) to
be unique. This latter condition allows for multiple prior preferences and robust control preferences that do
not satisfy Fréchet diﬀerentiability.


                                                        20
 (i) The A-SDF m∗ (V ) = 1 for all V if and only if I is the expectation operator.

 (ii) The following conditions are equivalent:

      (a) The certainty equivalent functional I is monotone with respect to second-order
          stochastic dominance.
      (b) The A-SDF m∗ (V ) is a non-increasing function of continuation utility V .
      (c) The announcement premium is non-negative for all payoﬀs that are co-monotone
          with continuation utility.

    Theorem 2 is our revealed preference characterization of the announcement premium. The
presence of the announcement premium imposes restrictions on preferences because according
to Theorem 1, the A-SDF that prices announcement returns is constructed from marginal
utilities. Therefore, data on announcement returns impose restrictions on the marginal
utilities of investors, and marginal utilities can be integrated to obtain the utility function
itself. Like any revealed preference exercise, richer data allows more precise statements about
preferences. Here, the assumption of non-atomic probability space is important, as it allows
us to construct a rich enough set of test assets and to use the pricing information on these
assets to infer the properties of investors’ utility functions.
    The key insight from Theorem 2 is that the announcement premium is informative about
how agents aggregate continuation utilities to compute their certainty equivalent. From the
examples in Section 3.2, there can be no announcement premium under expected utility. The
first part of the above theorem implies that the converse of the statement is also true: if we
have enough test assets and the announcement premiums for all test assets are zero, we can
infer that the representative agent must be a time-separable expected utility maximizer.
   The second part of the theorem provides a necessary and suﬃcient condition for non-
negative announcement premiums. In particular, if the announcement premiums for all
payoﬀs that are co-monotone with continuation utility are non-negative, then we can conclude
that the certainty equivalent functional I must be monotone with respect to second-order
stochastic dominance.
    To conclude that I is increasing in second-order stochastic dominance, we only need the
announcement premium to be non-negative for a relatively small class of assets, that is,
assets that satisfy the co-monotonicity condition in (21). However, if we already know that
I is increasing in second-order stochastic dominance, it is straightforward to show that the
announcement premium must be non-negative for a much larger set of assets. In particular,


                                              21
                       (      )               [       ]
any payoﬀ of the form f s| zt− + ε, where E ε| zt− , s = 0 must require a non-negative
announcement premium. This observation is useful in asset pricing applications in which
payoﬀs may not be measurable functions of the continuation utility.14


4.3        Generalized risk-sensitive preferences

Theorem 2 motivates the following definition of generalized risk sensitivity.

Definition 3. Generalized Risk Sensitivity:
    An intertemporal preference {u, β, I} is said to satisfy (strict) generalized risk sensitivity,
if the certainty equivalent functional I is (strictly) monotone with respect to second-order
stochastic dominance.

   Under the assumptions of Theorem 1, generalized risk sensitive preferences are precisely
the class of preferences that require a non-negative risk compensation for all assets with
announcement payoﬀs co-monotone with investors’ continuation utility.
    Loosely speaking, generalized risk sensitivity is a “concavity” property of the certainty
equivalent functional. The decision theory literature has studied related properties of the
certainty equivalent functional, for example, uncertainty aversion (Gilboa and Schmeidler
(1989)), and preference for early resolution of uncertainty (Kreps and Porteus (1978)). To
clarify the notion of generalized risk sensitivity, in this section, we discuss its relationship with
the above decision theoretic concepts. Throughout, we will assume that the intertemporal
preference, {u, β, I} is normalized and satisfies the assumptions of Theorem 1. Also, we
assume that either u (Y) = R or u (Y) = R+ like in Strzalecki (2013).


    Generalized risk sensitivity and uncertainty aversion As in Strzalecki (2013), we
define uncertainty aversion as the quasiconcavity of the certainty equivalent functional I:

Definition 4. Uncertainty Aversion:
    An intertemporal preference {u, β, I} is said to satisfy uncertainty aversion, if the
certainty equivalent functional I is quasiconcave, that is, ∀X1 , X2 ∈ L2 (Ω, F, P ), ∀λ ∈ (0, 1),
I [λX1 + (1 − λ) X2 ] ≥ min {I [X1 ] , I [X2 ]}.

   We make the following observations about the relationship between uncertainty aversion
and generalized risk sensitivity. We provide formal proofs in Appendix C.1.
  14
       We thank an anonymous referee for pointing this out.


                                                     22
 (i) The quasiconcavity of I is suﬃcient, but not necessary, for generalized risk sensitivity.
    A direct implication of the above result is that all uncertainty-averse preferences can
    be viewed as ways to formalize generalized risk sensitivity. Under the assumptions of
    Theorem 1, they all require a non-negative announcement premium (for all assets with
    payoﬀs co-monotone with continuation utility). These preferences include the maxmin
    expected utility of Gilboa and Schmeidler (1989); the second-order expected utility of
    Ergin and Gul (2009); the smooth ambiguity preference of Klibanoﬀ, Marinacci, and
    Mukerji (2005); the variational preference of Maccheroni, Marinacci, and Rustichini
    (2006a); the multiplier preference of Hansen and Sargent (2008) and Strzalecki (2011);
    and the confidence preference of Chateauneuf and Faro (2009).
    In Appendix C.1, we provide a proof for the suﬃciency of quasiconcavity for generalized
    risk sensitivity. To illustrate that quasiconcavity is not necessary, in the same
    appendix, we also provide an example that satisfies generalized risk sensitivity, but
    not quasiconcavity.

(ii) If I is of the form I [V ] = ϕ−1 (E [ϕ (V )]), where ϕ is a continuous and strictly
     increasing function, then generalized risk sensitivity is equivalent to quasiconcavity,
     which is also equivalent to the concavity of ϕ.
    The certainty equivalent functional of many intertemporal preferences takes the above
    form, for example, the the second-order expected utility of Ergin and Gul (2009) and
    the recursive preferences of Kreps and Porteus (1978) and Epstein and Zin (1989). For
    these preferences, generalized risk sensitivity is equivalent to the concavity of ϕ.

(iii) Assume the ϕ function in the representation (22) below is continuous and strictly
      increasing. Within this class of smooth ambiguity-averse preferences, uncertainty
      aversion is equivalent to generalized risk sensitivity.
    The smooth ambiguity-averse preference of Klibanoﬀ, Marinacci, and Mukerji (2005,
    2009) can be represented in the form of (14) with the following choice of the certainty
    equivalent functional:
                                             {∫                    }
                                        −1
                              I [V ] = ϕ               x
                                                   ϕ (E [V ]) dµ (x) .                   (22)
                                              ∆


    Here, ∆ denotes a set of probability measures indexed by x, denoted by Px . The notation
    E x [·] stands for expectations under the probability Px , and µ (x) is a probability
    measure over ∆. In Appendix C, we show that generalized risk sensitivity is equivalent
    to the concavity of ϕ, which is also equivalent to uncertainty aversion.

                                              23
    Generalized risk sensitivity and preference for early resolution of uncertainty
Our definition of preference for early resolution directly follows from Strzalecki (2013). We
first introduce a binary relation, ≥t on a subspace of C (see also definition 1 of Strzalecki
(2013)). In the following definition, let Č : (S, Σ) → (Y,B) be a measurable function that
specifies consumption as a function of the state s ∈ S. We also use yj ∈ Y to denote a
constant consumption plan that is measurable with respect to the trivial σ-field, {∅, Ω}.

Definition 5. Early Resolution:
   Let C, C′ ∈ C, then C ≥−                   ′                                           ′
                                          t C if there exists {yj }j̸=t+1 such that Cj = Cj = yj , for
                                                     ( +) ′            ( − )
j = 1, 2, · · · , t, t + 2, · · · , T , and Ct+1 = Č st , Ct+1 = Č st+1 .

    Intuitively, C and C′ are consumption plans that have no uncertainty other than in period
t + 1. Consumption in period t + 1 have identical distributions under C and C′ , except that
                                                         ′                −
Ct+1 depends on the realization of state s+t , whereas Ct+1 depends on st+1 . In other words,
under plan C′ , uncertainty in Ct+1
                                 ′
                                    is not known until t + 1− , and under plan C, uncertainty
in Ct+1 is known earlier, at t+ . Preference for early resolution of uncertainty is defined as
follows.

Definition 6. Preference for Early Resolution of Uncertainty:
    A system of conditional preferences {%z }z∈Z is said to satisfy preference for early
resolution of uncertainty if ∀C, C′ ∈ C, C ≥−  ′                ′
                                            t C implies C %zt− C .


    We summarize our main results for the relationship between preference for early resolution
of uncertainty and generalized risk sensitivity as follows. The formal proofs for these
statements can be found in Appendix C.2 of the paper.

  (i) Concavity of the certainty equivalent functional I is suﬃcient for both generalized risk
      sensitivity and preference for early resolution of uncertainty.
     Note that concavity implies quasiconcavity and therefore generalized risk sensitivity.
     Theorem 2 of Strzalecki (2013) also implies that these preferences satisfy preference
     for early resolution of uncertainty. As a result, Theorems 2 and 3 of Strzalecki
     (2013) imply that the variational preference of Maccheroni, Marinacci, and Rustichini
     (2006a) satisfies both generalized risk sensitivity and preference for early resolution of
     uncertainty.

 (ii) If I is of the form I [V ] = ϕ−1 (E [ϕ (V )]) or it is the smooth ambiguity preference,
                ∫
      I [V ] = ∆ ϕ (E x [V ]) dµ (x), where ϕ is strictly increasing and twice continuously

                                                 24
    diﬀerentiable, then generalized risk sensitivity implies preference for early resolution
    of uncertainty if either of the following two conditions hold:
                                                                        ′′
      (i) u (Y) = R and there exists A ≥ 0 such that − ϕϕ′ (a)  (a)
                                                                    ∈ [βA, A] for all a ∈ R.
                           [ ′′         ]       ′′
     (ii) u (Y) = R+ and β − ϕϕ′ (k+βa)
                                 (k+βa)
                                          ≤ − ϕϕ′ (a)
                                                   (a)
                                                       for all a, k ≥ 0.

    The above two conditions are the same as Conditions 1 and 2 in Strzalecki (2013).
    Intuitively, they require that the Arrow-Pratt coeﬃcient of the function ϕ does not
    vary too much. In both cases, generalized risk sensitivity implies the concavity of ϕ.
    By Theorem 4 of Strzalecki (2013), either of the above conditions implies preference for
    early resolution of uncertainty.
    Because the CES recursive utility can be represented in the form of (14) with

                                               1       1
                               u (C) =           1C
                                                    1− ψ
                                                         , I [V ] = ϕ−1 (E [ϕ (V )]) ,            (23)
                                              1− ψ

                    [      1
                                   ] 1−1/ψ
                                      1−γ
                        1− ψ
    where ϕ (x) =       1−γ
                               x             , it follows from Condition (b) that I is quasiconcave and
    therefore requires a non-negative announcement premium if and only if γ ≥ ψ1 . That is,
    for this class of preferences, preference for early resolution of uncertainty and generalized
    risk sensitivity are equivalent.

(iii) In general, preference for early resolution of uncertainty is neither suﬃcient nor
      necessary for generalized risk sensitivity.
    In Appendix C, we provide an example of a generalized risk-sensitive preference that
    violates preference for early resolution of uncertainty, as well as an example of a utility
    function that prefers early resolution of uncertainty, but does not satisfy generalized
    risk sensitivity.

(iv) Generalized risk sensitivity and indiﬀerence toward the timing of resolution of
     uncertainty imply the following “maxmin expected utility” representation:
                                                  ∫
                                   I [V ] = inf      mV dP.                      (24)
                                                       m∈M (FV )



    In the above expression, FV stands for the distribution of V , and M (FV ) is a family of
    densities that depends on FV . In the maxmin expected utility of Gilboa and Schmeidler
    (1989), the set of priors are typically specified without referencing the distribution of

                                                         25
      V . Therefore, the above representation (24) contains preferences not allowed in Gilboa
      and Schmeidler (1989). If we further require I to be quasiconcave, then Theorem 1 in
      Strzalecki (2013) implies that M (FV ) cannot depend on FV and I [V ] is the maxmin
      expected utility in the sense of Gilboa and Schmeidler (1989).

    In the above sections, we have set up our model in a finite-horizon setting. Extending
our results to the infinite-horizon setting will be an important topic for future research. It
will require imposing conditions on u and I so that infinite repetitions of the recursion in
(15) and (16) converge to a limit in an appropriately defined functional space. One will
also need to show that doing so preserves diﬀerentiability of the value function V , as we
establish in our finite-horizon setting in Appendix B. Given the diﬀerentiability of the value
function, Theorem 2 above can be directly applied to establish the equivalence of generalized
risk sensitivity and the non-negativity of the announcement premium.
   We now turn to the asset pricing implications of our theory.


4.4    Asset pricing implications

    Risk compensation for news Compared to traditional consumption-based asset
pricing models, our setup decomposes intertemporal returns into an announcement return
and a post-announcement return. At all pre-announcement history zt− , we have
                            [  ( (      ))   (      )   ]
                           E m∗ V ·| zt− RA,j ·| zt− zt− = 1,                              (25)
                                           (        )
and at all post-announcement history zt+ = zt− , s+           +
                                                  t , where st is an announcement after the
history zt− ,
                                [ (      )    (       )   ]
                             E y ∗ ·| zt+ RP,j ·| zt+ zt+ = 1.                              (26)
   (      )
y ∗ ·| zt+ in the above equation is an SDF that, given information at history zt+ , prices all
                                                  {(         )}
assets that pay oﬀ in the next period at history zt+ , s−t+1    s−
                                                                     . Using the law of iterated
                                                                 t+1
expectations, the above two equations can be combined to write
                                  [      → (
                                         −          )   ]
                                 E m∗ y ∗ R j ·| zt− zt− = 1,                              (27)

      → (
      −         )         (    )      (     )
where R j ·| zt− = RA,j ·| zt− · RP,j ·| zt+ is the cumulative return for asset j on the pre-
and post-announcement markets. The A-SDF only depends on the curvature of the certainty
equivalent functional I, and the SDF y ∗ depends on both the curvature of u and the curvature
of I.

                                              26
    Theorem 2 implies that generalized risk sensitivity is precisely the class of preferences
under which m∗ is a decreasing function of continuation utility and therefore enhances
risk compensation. That is, it is the class of preferences under which news about future
continuation utility requires a risk compensation. Hansen and Sargent (2008) use a risk-
sensitive operator to motivate an additional component in the SDF that increases its
volatility. In this sense, our theory generalizes the notion of risk sensitivity of Hansen and
Sargent (2008).
    In the literature, risk compensation for news about the future is often attributed to
uncertainty aversion in the maxmin expected utility model and preference for early resolution
of uncertainty in the CES recursive utility model. These intuitions are valid because,
as we discussed in Section 4.3, uncertainty aversion and preference for early resolution of
uncertainty provide suﬃcient conditions for generalized risk sensitivity, respectively, in the
context of the maxmin expected utility model and in the context of the CES recursive utility
model. In general, however, as we demonstrated in Section 4.3, preference for early resolution
of uncertainty is neither necessary nor suﬃcient for generalized risk sensitivity. It is possible
to model risk compensation for news without assuming any preference for early resolution of
uncertainty, because generalized risk sensitivity is the essential property of preferences that
is responsible for this asset pricing implication.


   Quantifying the importance of generalized risk sensitivity Just like asset market
returns are informative about the property of SDFs, announcement returns are informative
about the quantitative magnitude of the A-SDF. We make the following observations:

 (i) Theorem 2 implies that the announcement premium must be compensation for
     generalized risk sensitivity and cannot be compensation for risk aversion associated
     with the Von Neumann–Morgenstern utility function u. This is because the A-SDF,
     m∗ , depends only on the curvature of the certainty equivalent functional I [·], and not
     that of the u (·) function.

 (ii) The entropy bounds of Bansal and Lehmann (1997) and Alvarez and Jermann (2005)
      provide some insights about the contribution of m∗ to equity risk premiums. To save
      notation, we focus on unconditional expectations here and suppress the dependence of
      SDF and returns on history. For any variable X, let L (X) = ln E [X] − E [ln X] be
      the entropy of its distribution. The entropy [bound implies]that L (m∗ ) ≥ E [ln RA,j ] for
                                                      −
                                                      →
      announcement returns, and L (m∗ y ∗ ) ≥ E ln R j − ln R0 for the cumulative returns
      on the pre- and post-announcement markets. Using the average annual market return

                                               27
     in Table I, L (m∗ ) ≥ 3.17% per annum and L (m∗ y ∗ ) ≥ 5.08% per annum. The
     announcement returns are large and compose about 55% of the total equity premium.
     This clearly suggests a large contribution of m∗ to the market price of risk. On a daily
     basis, the equity premium on announcement days is 11.2 bps, whereas the average daily
     return in the entire sample period is 2.5 bps. The lower bound on the entropy of the
     SDF on announcement days is roughly five times of that on an average trading day.
     This evidence implies that L(m∗ ) is sizable and that models in which announcement
     returns are absent or small are mis-specified from the perspective of asset market data.

(iii) The Hansen and Jagannathan (1991) bound for the SDF’s leads to a similar conclusion.
                                                                              E [RA,j ]−1
      Equation (13) implies that for any announcement return, RA,j , σ [m∗ ] ≥ σ R        .Using
                                                                                 [ A,j ]
      the Sharpe ratio for the announcement-day returns reported in Table I, we have
      σ [m∗ ] ≥ 9.85% at the daily level. This bound is much tighter than the Hansen-
      Jaganathan bound derived from the annualized market returns for the SDF m∗ y ∗ during
      the same period: σ [m∗ y ∗ ] ≥ 2.55%.


    Pre-FOMC announcement drift The theoretical notion of announcements in our
model can be interpreted as pre-scheduled macroeconomic announcements or informative
signals before the oﬃcially scheduled announcements. As a result, Theorem 2 is also a
statement about the pre-announcement drift. That is, if the contents of announcements
are communicated to the public before the pre-scheduled announcements, then these
communications will be associated with realizations of risk premiums under generalized risk
sensitivity. In the continuous-time example in the next section, we demonstrate our model’s
implications for both the announcement premium and the pre-announcement drift.



5    Continuous-time examples
In this section, we use a continuous-time setup to discuss the implications of several examples
of dynamic preferences for the announcement premium. We first provide an example of
generalized risk sensitivity by using the continuous-time version of the recursive preference
developed by Duﬃe and Epstein (1992). The continuous-time model allows us to highlight the
high-frequency nature of announcement returns by distinguishing between the compensation
for generalized risk sensitivity that is instantaneously realized upon announcements and
the risk premium that accumulates incrementally over time as shocks to consumption
materialize. We also use this example to analyze the pre-FOMC announcement drift,

                                              28
assuming information is communicated hours before the scheduled announcement. Finally,
we use the continuous-time setup to provide characterizations of the announcement premium
implied by some time-non-separable utilities that our representation (14) does not allow for.


5.1    Consumption and information

We consider a continuous-time representative agent economy, where the growth rate of
aggregate consumption contains a predictable component, xt , and an i.i.d. component
modeled by increments of a Brownian motion:

                                          dCt
                                              = xt dt + σdBC,t .
                                          Ct

Similar to the model of Ai (2010), we assume that xt is a continuous-time AR(1) process (an
Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process) unobservable to the agent in the economy. The law of motion
of xt is
                               dxt = ax (x̄ − xt ) dt + σ x dBx,t ,                    (28)

where BC,t and Bx,t are independent standard Brownian motions.
   We assume that the prior belief of the representative agent about x0 can be represented
by a normal distribution. The agent can use two sources of information to update beliefs
about xt . First, the realized consumption path contains information about xt , and second,
at pre-scheduled discrete time points T, 2T, 3T, · · · , additional signals about xt are revealed
through announcements. For n = 1, 2, 3, · · · , we denote sn as the signal observed at time nT
and assume sn = xnT + εn , where εn is i.i.d. over time, and normally distributed with mean
zero and variance σ 2S .
    Because the posterior distribution of xt is Gaussian, it can be summarized by the first
                                                                            [         ]
two moments. We define x̂t = Et [xt ] as the posterior mean and qt = Et (xt − x̂t )2 as the
posterior variance, respectively, of xt given information up to time t. At time t = nT , where
n is an integer, the agent updates his beliefs using Bayes’ rule:
                                    [                   ]
                               1         1        1 −         1         1    1
                     x̂+
                       nT =    +             sn + − x̂nT ;    +    =       + − ,            (29)
                              qnT       σ 2S     qnT         qnT         2
                                                                       σ S qnT
                                                                                  −
where x̂+        +
        nT and qnT are the posterior mean and variance after announcements, and x̂nT and
 −
qnT are the posterior mean and variance before announcements, respectively.
   In the interior of (nT, (n + 1) T ), the agent updates his beliefs based on the observed


                                                    29
consumption process using the Kalman-Bucy filter:

                                                             q (t)
                                dx̂t = ax [x̄ − x̂t ] dt +         dB̃C,t ,                                 (30)
                                                               σ
                                                                              [              ]
where the innovation process, B̃C,t is defined by dB̃C,t =                1
                                                                          σ
                                                                                  dCt
                                                                                   Ct
                                                                                      − x̂t dt   . The posterior
variance, q (t) satisfies the Riccati equation:
                                        [                                ]
                                                                 1 2
                             dq (t) =       σ 2x − 2ax q (t) −      q (t) dt.                               (31)
                                                                 σ2

5.2    Generalized risk sensitive preferences

    Preferences and the stochastic discount factor We first consider a simple example
of generalized risk sensitivity. We assume that the representative agent has a Kreps-Porteus
utility with γ > ψ1 , and we specify the continuous-time preference as the limit of the discrete-
time recursion in (14). Over a small time interval ∆ > 0,
                             (        )
                         Vt = 1 − e−ρ∆ u (Ct ) + e−ρ∆ I [ Vt+∆ | x̂t , qt ] ,                               (32)

where u and I [·| x̂t , qt ] are given in equation (23). To derive closed-form solutions, we focus
                                                                             [       ]
on the limiting case of ψ = 1, where u (C) = ln C and I [V ] = 1−γ    1
                                                                         ln E e(1−γ)V .
     Like in previous discrete-time examples, the stochastic discount factor over a small interval
(t, t + ∆) is given by

                                                  u′ (Ct+∆ ) e(1−γ)Vt+∆
                           SDFt,t+∆ = e−ρ∆                                   .                              (33)
                                                   u′ (Ct ) Et [e(1−γ)Vt+∆ ]
                               (1−γ)Vt+∆
Clearly, the term m∗t+∆ = E e e(1−γ)Vt+∆ is a density and can be interpreted as a probability
                           t[           ]
distortion.


    Announcement premiums We assume that the stock market is the claim to the
following dividend process:

                              dDt
                                  = [x̄ + ϕ (xt − x̄)] dt + ϕσdBC,t ,                                       (34)
                              Dt

and we allow the leverage parameter ϕ > 1 so that dividends are more risky than
consumption, as in Bansal and Yaron (2004).

                                                     30
    In the interior of (nT, (n + 1) T ), all state variables, Ct , x̂t , and qt in (33) are continuous
functions of t. As a result, as ∆ → 0, SDFt,t+∆ → 1 and the equity premium on any asset
must converge to zero. In fact, using a first-order approximation, we show in Section S. 3.1
of the Supplemental Material that the equity premium over the interval (t, t + ∆) must be
proportional to the holding period ∆:
                                          [              ][                  ]
                                                γ − 1 qt          ϕ − 1 qt
                                           γσ +             ϕσ +               ∆,                      (35)
                                                ax + ρ σ         ax + e−ϱ̄ σ

where ϱ̄ is the steady-state log price-to-dividend ratio.
   In contrast, let t = T − 12 ∆, so that the interval (t, t + ∆) always contains an
                                          ′
announcement. As ∆ → 0, the term e−ρ∆ u u(C    t+∆ )
                                            ′ (C )   converges to 1, but m∗t+∆ does not. Because
                                                 t                    [          ]
the value function Vt+∆ depends on the announcement, and Et e(1−γ)Vt+∆ does not, the
probability distortion does not disappear as ∆ → 0. In Section S. 3.1 of the Supplemental
Material, we show that in the limit, the announcement premium can be approximated by

                                                   γ−1 ϕ−1 ( −               )
                                                                 −ϱ̄
                                                                     qT − qT+ .                        (36)
                                                   ax + ρ ax + e

We make the following two observations.

  (i) As ∆ → 0, the market equity premium vanishes without announcements, but stays
      strictly positive if an announcement is made during the interval (t, t + ∆), as shown in
      Equations (35) and (36).

                  Figure 3. Average hourly return around announcements


                                                   Average hourly return around announcements
                                         20




                                         15




                          Basis points
                                         10




                                         5




                                         0
                                              -5     -4        -3     -2      -1      0        1   2
                                                          Number of hours after announcement




Figure 3 plots the model implied average hourly return around pre-scheduled announcements.


                                                                       31
      In Figure 3, we plot the average hourly market return around announcements. We
      choose standard parameters used in the long-run risks literature, the details of which are
      provided in Section S. 3.2 of the Supplemental Material. The premium realized during
      the announcement hour is 17 bps, whereas the average return during non-announcement
      hours is much smaller by comparison. This pattern is consistent with the bottom panel
      of Figure 1.

 (ii) As shown in Equation (36), the magnitude of the announcement premium is
      proportional to the amount of uncertainty reduction, qT− − qT+ , and is increasing in
      the persistence of the xt process. Increases in the persistence of xt , which is inversely
      related to ax , have two eﬀects.15 First, they imply that revelations of xt have a stronger
      impact on continuation utility Vt+∆ and therefore m∗t+∆ . Second, more persistence
      in the expected growth rate of cash flow is also associated with a stronger eﬀect of
      announcements on the price-to-dividend ratio of the equity. Together, they imply
      that the announcement premium must increase with the persistence of xt . The above
      observation implies that the heterogeneity in the magnitude of the premium for diﬀerent
      macroeconomic announcements can be potentially explained by the diﬀerences in their
      informativeness and the significance of their welfare implications.

(iii) In our endowment economy model, although instantaneous consumption CT does not
      respond to the announcement made at time T , future consumption does, as xT is the
      expected consumption growth rate. Our results below for the announcement premium
      and the pre-announcement drift will continue to hold in neoclassical production
      economies, where xt is interpreted as expected productivity growth and consumption is
      allowed to respond instantaneously to announcements about xt . As we remarked earlier,
      in production economies, the instantaneous reaction of consumption to announcements
      contributes to a small and negative premium, but the overall announcement premium is
      positive as long as we allow for significant generalized risk sensitivity in the preferences.16


   Pre-FOMC announcement drift As discussed earlier in the paper, the
announcement in our theory represents a resolution of macroeconomic uncertainty. It can
be due to pre-scheduled macroeconomic announcements, informal communications from Fed
oﬃcials to the public, or information leakage. In our continuous-time model, we simply
assume that the agent receives informative signals prior to the FOMC announcements and
 15
   The autocorrelation between xt and xt+∆ is roughly 1 − ax ∆ for small values of ∆.
 16
   We have solved a model with neoclassical production technology and obtained similar results for
announcement premiums and the pre-announcement drift. The results are available upon request.


                                                32
                          Figure 4. Pre-FOMC announcement drift


                                                                  Probability of communication before announcement
                                                         2




                           Probability density
                                                 1.5

                                                         1

                                                 0.5

                                                         0
                                                             -6        -5          -4        -3        -2        -1       0       1       2

                                                                       Hourly return around announcement: FOMC
                                                         5

                                                         4



                                          Basis points
                                                         3

                                                         2

                                                         1

                                                         0
                                                                  -5        -4          -3        -2        -1        0       1       2
                                                                                 Number of hours after announcement




Figure 4 plots the probability density of communication before announcement (top panel) and the average
hourly return around announcements (bottom panel).


explore its implications for the pre-announcement drift. Recent research provides suggestive
evidence of information leakage as a plausible channel for these signals assumed in our
model. Cieslak, Morse, and Vissing-Jorgensen (2015) provide evidence of systematic informal
communication of Fed oﬃcials with the media and financial sector as the information
transmission channel. In a similar vein, Bernile, Hu, and Tang (2016) find evidence consistent
with informed trading during a very short window (approximately 30 minutes) of news
embargoes prior to the FOMC scheduled announcements and not of other macroeconomic
announcements.17 While the timing of the above empirical evidence of leaks does not exactly
match the timing of the pre-announcement drift reported in Lucca and Moench (2015), it is
generally indicative of the possibility of information leaks.
    In Figure 4, we plot the implication of our model for the pre-FOMC announcement
drift, assuming communications occur before announcements. For simplicity, we assume that
communication, whenever it occurs, fully reveals xt , and, we plot the probability density
of communication at time t (y-axis) as a function of t (x-axis) in the top panel of Figure
4. In the bottom panel, we plot the model-implied average hourly market return around
  17
    In the transcripts of the October 15, 2010 FOMC conference call, then Chairman Ben Bernanke also
expressed     concerns     about    information    leaks  to    market     participants.        See
https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/files/FOMC20101015confcall.pdf.


                                                                                                   33
announcements. We provide the details of the calculation of the pre-announcement drift in
Section S. 3.2 of the Supplemental Material. Note that the magnitude of the announcement
premium is proportional to the probability of the occurrence of communication. The
announcement premium peaks during hours with the highest probability of communication
and converges to zero as t → 0, because communication occurs with probability one before
the pre-scheduled announcement time. This pattern of the pre-announcement drift implied
by our model is very similar to its empirical counterpart in Figure 1.
   To evaluate the dynamics of nominal bond returns and the announcement premium in
the bond markets, we also solve a more extensive model related to Piazzesi and Schneider
(2006) and Bansal and Shaliastovich (2013) with growth and inflation dynamics. We show
that consistent with the data, the bond announcement premium in our calibrated model is
about 3 bps. We also demonstrate that in small samples comparable to those used in earlier
empirical work, the pre-announcement drift is present in the equity markets but statistically
absent in bond returns, because the announcement premium for bonds is substantially smaller
in magnitude than is that for equity.18


5.3       Time-non-separable preferences

In this section, we analyze several examples of time-non-separable preferences that are
not allowed by representation (14). We continue to use the specification of consumption
and information structure in Section 5.1. We assume that the representative agent ranks
intertemporal consumption plans according to the following utility function:
                                           [∫ ∞                               ]
                                                        −ρt
                                       E            e         u (Ct + bHt ) dt ,             (37)
                                            0


for some appropriately defined habit process {Ht }∞  t=0 , which we specify below. The above
representation includes the external habit model of Campbell and Cochrane (1999); the
internal habit model of Constantinides (1990) and Boldrin, Christiano, and Fisher (2001);
and the consumption substitutability model (see Dunn and Singleton (1986) and Heaton
(1993)) as special cases. In this section, we denote the marginal utility of Ct as
                                           [∫ ∞                                        ]
                                  ∂                      −ρ(t+s)
                            Λt =     Et                 e           u (Ct+s + bHt+s ) ds .
                                 ∂Ct            0

 18
      This evidence is available from the authors on request.




                                                               34
The sign of the announcement premium depends on how the marginal utility, Λt reacts to
the announcement at time t. We make the following observations and provide the detailed
proofs in Section S. 3.2 of the Supplemental Material.

 (i) The external habit model has zero announcement premium.
     Suppose b ∈ (−1, 0) and Ht is a habit process defined as
                                (        ∫ t              )     ∫ t
                         Ht =       1−         ξ (t, s) ds H0 +     ξ (t, s) Cs ds,       (38)
                                          0                        0


     where {ξ (t, s)}ts=0 is a non-negative weighting function that satisfies the regularity
     conditions (S. 3.16)-(S. 3.18) in Section S. 3.2 of the Supplemental Material. In the
     external habit model, the consumption, {Cs }ts=0 in equation (38), is interpreted as
     aggregate consumption, which is exogenous to the choice of the agent. Our specification
     is therefore a generalization of the Campbell and Cochrane (1999) model in continuous
     time. Because the habit stock Ht is exogenous, like in expected utility models, marginal
     utilities depend on current-period consumption only:

                                         Λt = e−ρt u′ (Ct + bHt ) .


     Clearly, news about the future does not aﬀect Λt and the announcement premium must
     be zero.
     Strictly speaking, the external habit model is time-separable. Because individuals take
     the habit stock as given, the external habit preference is essentially an expected utility
     with time-varying risk aversions. It has a zero announcement premium for the same
     reason that the expected utility model does.

 (ii) The internal habit model generates a negative announcement premium.
     We continue to assume b ∈ (−1, 0) and (38), except that {Cs }ts=0 in equation (38) is
     interpreted as the agent’s own consumption choice. This model is a generalized version
     of the Constantinides (1990) model. The marginal utility of Ct for the internal habit
     model can be written as:
                 {                   [∫ ∞                                             ]}
             −ρt   ′                       −ρs            ′
       Λt = e     u (Ct + bHt ) + bE      e ξ (t + s, t) u (Ct+s + bHt+s ) ds x̂t , qt . (39)
                                               0


     We show in Section S. 3.2 of the Supplemental Material that Λt in (39) is an increasing

                                                    35
     function of x̂t . Therefore, the internal habit model implies a negative premium for any
     return positively correlated with x̂t .
     The marginal utility Λt increases with x̂t because good news about the future lowers the
     negative impact of accumulating habit stock. While investors with an external habit
     preference take the habit process as exogenous to their choices, internal habit utility
     maximizers take into account the eﬀect of current-period consumption on future habit
     stocks when computing marginal utilities. As shown in equation (39), an increase in Ct
     has a positive eﬀect on the current-period utility, which is u′ (Ct + bHt ), but a negative
     impact on utility in all future periods, because it raises the level of Ht+s for all s ≥ 0.
     The negative impact of accumulating the habit stock is captured by the expectation
                                                [∫ ∞                                           ]
     of marginal utilities in the future: E 0 e−ρs ξ (t + s, t) u′ (Ct+s + bHt+s ) ds x̂t , qt
     in equation (39). Good news about consumption growth leaves the current-period
     marginal utility, u′ (Ct + bHt ), unchanged, but lowers the marginal utility in all future
     periods. As b < 0, this reduction in future marginal utilities in response to positive
     innovations in x̂t raises the overall marginal utility, Λt .

(iii) The consumption substitutability model produces a positive announcement premium.
     Suppose the agent’s preference is defined by (37) and (38) with b > 0. In this case,
     past consumption increases current-period utility. Opposite of the internal habit model,
     the marginal utility (39) is a decreasing function of x̂t . Therefore, the announcement
     premium is positive for any asset with a return positively correlated with x̂t . Even
     though the presence of consumption substitutability produces a positive announcement
     premium, it lowers the agent’s eﬀective risk aversion and exacerbates the equity
     premium puzzle, as emphasized by Gallant, Hansen, and Tauchen (1990).



6    Conclusion
Motivated by the fact that a large fraction of the market equity premium is realized on
a small number of trading days with significant macroeconomic announcements, in this
paper, we provide a revealed preference analysis of the equity premium for macroeconomic
announcements.      Assuming that consumption does not respond instantaneously to
announcements, we show that a non-negative announcement premium is equivalent to
generalized risk sensitivity; that is, investors’ certainty equivalent functional is monotone
in second-order stochastic dominance. We demonstrate that generalized risk sensitivity is
exactly the class of preferences that demands a risk compensation for news that aﬀects

                                              36
continuation utilities, or “long-run risks.” As a result, our theoretical framework implies that
the announcement premium can be interpreted as asset-market-based evidence for a broad
class of non-expected utility models that have this feature.
    Because of its high-frequency nature, continuous-time models are particularly convenient
for studying the announcement premium and the pre-announcement drift in the FOMC
announcements. We show in a continuous-time model that the pre-announcement drift can
arise in environments in which information about announcements is communicated to the
market prior to the scheduled announcement.
   We assume a representative agent throughout the paper; however, some of our results
may extend to more general setups. For example, the result that the expected utility implies
a zero announcement premium on all assets should also hold in complete-market economies
where agents’ preferences are heterogenous, but all have an expected utility representation.
Standard aggregation results imply that asset prices in these economies are observationally
equivalent to a representative-agent economy with time-separable expected utility. This
observation should also apply to the external habit model.
    Several related topics may provide promising directions for future research. A natural
extension of the current paper is to provide a characterization for generalized risk sensitivity
in the continuous-time framework. Such conditions may bear interesting connections with
Skiadas (2013), who provides a continuous-time analysis of certainty equivalent functionals
for non-expected utilities. Another idea worth careful exploration is to evaluate whether asset
market frictions related to liquidity or slow-moving capital, as emphasized in Duﬃe (2010),
may contribute to the announcement premium and the pre-announcement drift. Finally, our
theory has several implications that may be tested empirically. For example, our analysis
implies that the magnitude of the announcement premium is determined by how informative
an announcement is about the future course of the economy. In addition, a sizable literature
documents significant excess returns at the firm level around earnings announcements (see
e.g., Chari, Jagannathan, and Ofer (1988) and Ball and Kothari (1991)). To the extent that
these earnings announcements carry news about the macroeconomy, premiums associated
with earnings announcements can be consistent with our theory. Further exploration of this
issue may be an interesting direction for future research.




                                              37
                                        APPENDICES
   The following appendices provide details of the data construction for the stylized facts in
Section 2 and the proofs of the main results in Section 4. Appendix A is the data appendix.
Appendix B contains the proofs of Theorem 1 and Theorem 2. Appendix C provides
the omitted proofs for the results on the relationship between generalized risk sensitivity,
uncertainty aversion, and preference for early resolution in Section 4.3.



Appendix A                 Data Description
   Macroeconomic announcements We focus on the top five macroeconomic news
ranked by investor attention among all macroeconomic announcements at the monthly
or lower frequencies. They are unemployment/non-farm payroll (EMPL/NFP) and the
producer price index (PPI) published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the
FOMC statements, gross domestic product (GDP) reported by the U.S. Bureau of Economic
Analysis, and the Institute for Supply Management’s Manufacturing Report (ISM) released
by Bloomberg.19
    The EMPL/NFL and the PPI are both published monthly and their announcement dates
come from the BLS website. The BLS began announcing its scheduled release dates in
advance in 1961, which is also the starting date for our EMPL/NFL announcements sample.
The PPI data series starts in 1971.20 There are a total of eight FOMC meetings each calendar
year, and the dates of FOMC meetings are taken from the Federal Reserve’s web site. The
FOMC statements began in 1994, when the Committee started announcing its decision to
the markets by releasing a statement at the end of each meeting. For meetings lasting two
calendar days, we consider the second day (the day the statement is released) as the event
date. GDP is released quarterly beginning from 1997, which is the first year that full data
are available, and the dates come from the BEA’s website.21 Finally, ISM is a monthly
  19
      Both unemployment and non-farm payroll information are released as part of the Employment Situation
Report published by the BLS. We treat them as one announcement.
   20
      While the CPI data are also available from the BLS back to 1961, once the PPI starts being published
it typically precedes the CPI announcement. Given the large overlap in information between the two macro
releases, much of the news content in the CPI announcement is already known to the market at the time of
its release. For this reason, we opt in favor of using the PPI.
   21
      GDP growth announcements are made monthly according to the following pattern: in April the advance
estimate for Q1 GDP growth is released, followed by a preliminary estimate of the same Q1 GDP growth in
May and a final estimate given in the June announcement. Arguably, most uncertainty about Q1 growth is
resolved once the advance estimate is published, and most learning by the markets will occur prior to this
release. For this reason, we focus only on the four advance estimate release dates every year.


                                                   38
announcement with dates coming from Bloomberg starting from 1997. Our sample ends in
2014.


    High-frequency returns In Table III and Figure 1, we report the average stock market
excess returns over one-hour intervals before and after news announcements in event time.
Here, we use high-frequency data for the S&P 500 SPDR that runs from 1997 to 2013 and
comes from the TAQ database. For each second, the median price of all transactions occurring
in that second is computed. Prices at lower frequency intervals (e.g. hourly prices) are then
constructed as the price for the last (most recent) second in that interval when transactions
were observed. The exact times at which the announcements are released are reported by
Bloomberg.



Appendix B                  Proof of Theorems 1 and 2

B.1        Preliminaries

We first state the definition of a non-atomic probability space, which is an assumption
maintained throughout Section 4.
Definition B.1. Non-atomic probability space:
       A probability space (Ω, F, P ) is said to be non-atomic if ∀ω ∈ Ω, P (ω) = 0.

   Next, we state the definition of first-order stochastic dominance (FSD) and second-order
stochastic dominance (SSD).
Definition B.2. First-order stochastic dominance:
   X1 first-order stochastic dominates X2 , or X1 ≥F SD X2 , if there exists a random variable
Y ≥ 0 a.s. such that X1 has the same distribution as X2 +Y . X1 strictly first-order stochastic
dominates X2 , or X1 >F SD X2 , if P (Y > 0) > 0 in the above definition.
Definition B.3. Second-order stochastic dominance:
   X1 second order stochastic dominates X2 , or X1 ≥SSD X2 , if there exists a random variable
Y such that E [Y | X1 ] = 0 and X2 has the same distribution as X1 + Y . X1 strictly second
order stochastic dominates X2 , or X1 >SSD X2 , if P (Y ̸= 0) > 0 in the above definition.22
  22
    Our definition of SSD is the same as the standard concept of increasing risk (see Rothschild and Stiglitz
(1970) and Werner (2009)). However, it is important to note that in our model, the certainty equivalent
functional I is defined on the space of continuation utilities rather than consumption.


                                                     39
   FSD and SSD are typically defined as stochastic orders on the space of distributions.
Here, it is more convenient to define FSD and SSD as binary relations on the space of
random variables. Our definitions are equivalent to the standard definitions of FSD and SSD
due to the assumption of a non-atomic probability space (See Muller and Stoyan (2002)).
   Our strategy for proving Theorem 1 and 2 consists of two steps. First, we apply the
envelope theorems in Milgrom and Segal (2002) to establish the diﬀerentiability of the
value functions. Second, we compute the derivatives of I to construct the A-SDF and use
derivatives of I to integrate back to recover the certainty equivalent functional.23
    Most of our analysis below is on the conditional certainty equivalent functional I [·| z].
To save notation, whenever it does not cause confusion, we suppress the dependence of
I [·| z] on z and simply write I [·]. We often use the following operation to relate the
certainty equivalent functional I and its derivatives. ∀ X,Y ∈ L2 (Ω, F, P ), we can define
g (t) = I [X + t (Y − X)] for t ∈ [0, 1] and compute I [Y ] − I [X] as

                     I [Y ] − I [X] = g (1) − g (0)
                                      ∫ 1
                                    =      g ′ (t) dt
                                      ∫0 1 ∫
                                    =           DI [X + t (Y − X)] (Y − X) dP dt,                     (40)
                                          0   Ω


where DI [X + t (Y − X)] is understood as the representation of the Fréchet derivative
of I [·] evaluated at X + t (Y − X). The Riesz representation theorem implies that
DI [X + t (Y − X)] is an element of L2 (Ω, F, P ), and DI [X + t (Y − X)] applied to
                                           ∫
(Y − X) can be computed as the dot product, Ω DI [X + t (Y − X)] (Y − X) dP .
    We note that Fréchet Diﬀerentiability with Lipschitz Derivatives guarantees that the
function g (t) is continuously diﬀerentiable. The diﬀerentiability of g is straightforward (see
for example, Luenberger (1997)). To see that g ′ (t) is continuous, note that
                              ∫
        ′        ′
       g (t1 ) − g (t2 ) =         {DI [X + t1 (Y − X)] − DI [X + t2 (Y − X)]} (Y − X) dP
                               Ω
                          ≤ ∥DI [X + t1 (Y − X)] − DI [X + t2 (Y − X)]∥ · ∥Y − X∥ .
  23
    A weaker notion of diﬀerentiability, Gâtteaux diﬀerentiability is enough to guarantee the existence of
A-SDF. However, the converse of Theorem 1 requires a stronger condition for diﬀerentiability, which is what
we assume here.




                                                    40
The Lipschitz continuity of DI implies that, for some positive constant K,

          ∥DI [X + t1 (Y − X)] − DI [X + t2 (Y − X)]∥ ≤ K (t1 − t2 ) ∥(Y − X)∥ ,

and the latter vanishes as t2 → t1 . This proves the validity of (40).
   For later reference, it is useful to note that we can apply the mean value theorem on g
and apply (40) to write for some t̂ ∈ (0, 1),
                                       ∫
                                             [              ]
                    I [Y ] − I [X] =       DI X + t̂ (Y − X) (Y − X) dP.                  (41)
                                       Ω

Much of our analysis below relies on the theory of diﬀerentiability for nonlinear operators
defined on infinite dimensional spaces, for example, in Tapia (1971) and Luenberger (1997).


B.2     Existence of A-SDF

In this section, we provide a proof for Theorem 1 and establish the existence of A-SDF.


   Diﬀerentiability of value function We establish the diﬀerentiability of value
functions recursively. In particular, we show that the value functions are elements of D,
which is defined as:

Definition B.4. D is the set of diﬀerentiable functions on the real line, denoted by f , that
satisfy the following two properties.

 (i) f is Lipschitz continuous and f ′ (x) > 0.

 (ii) ∀x ∈ R, as h → 0, h1 [f (x + h − a) − f (x − a)] converges uniformly to f ′ (x − a)
      in a. That is, ∀ε > 0, there exists δ > 0 such that |h| < δ implies that
       1
       h
         [f (x + h − a) − f (x − a)] − f ′ (x − a) < ε for all a ∈ R.

   We first introduce some notations. For any v ∈ D, we define fv and gv as functions of
(W, ξ), where W is the wealth level, and ξ ∈ RJ+1 is a portfolio strategy, by:
                              (    ∑J       )        [ (∑J            )]
                 fv (W, ξ) = u W −       ξ j + βI v             ξ j Rj ,                  (42)
                                     j=0                    j=0
                              [ (    ∑J                  )]
                 gv (W, ξ) = I v W +         ξ j (Rj − 1) .                               (43)
                                                j=0




                                                41
                                                                           (∑         )
Because Rj ∈ L2 (Ω, F, P ) and v is Lipschitz continuous, for a fixed ξ, v    J
                                                                                 ξ R
                                                                              j=0 j j   and
 (       ∑              )
v W + Jj=0 ξ j (Rj − 1) are both square-integrable and equations (42) and (43) are well-
defined.
   We define two operators on D. For any v ∈ D, let T + v and T − v be defined by:
                                [     ]
                                 T + v (W ) = sup fv (W, ξ) ,                                  (44)
                                               ξ
                                [ − ]
                                 T v (W ) = sup gv (W, ξ) .                                    (45)
                                                    ξ


Clearly, the value functions Vzt+ (W ) and Vzt− (W ) can be constructed recursively as Vzt+ (W ) =
[         ]                         [       ]
   +                                   −
  T Vzt+1
       −    (W ), and Vzt− (W ) = T Vzt+ (W ) (with the understanding that the certainty
equivalent functionals in the definition of fv (W, ξ) and gv (W, ξ) are appropriately chosen
conditional certainty equivalent functionals). Because we start with the assumption of the
existence of an interior equilibrium, the maximization problems (44) and (45) are well defined,
and the maximums are achieved.
    Below, we prove that Vzt+ and Vzt− are elements of D in two steps. First, Lemma B.1 below
establishes the equi-diﬀerentiability of the family of functions {fv (W, ξ)}ξ and {gv (W, ξ)}ξ
so that we can apply the envelope theorem in Milgrom and Segal (2002). Second, in Lemma
B.2, we apply the envelope theorem repeatedly to show that the operators T + and T − map
D into itself.

Lemma B.1. Suppose u, v ∈ D, as h → 0, both                    1
                                                               h
                                                                 [fv (W + h, ξ) − fv (W, ξ)]   and
1
h
  [gv (W + h, ξ) − gv (W, ξ)] converge uniformly for all ξ.
   Proof: First, as h → 0,

      1                               1[ (      ∑J     )   (    ∑J      )]
        [fv (W + h, ξ) − fv (W, ξ)] =   u W +h−      ξj − u W −      ξj
      h                               h          j=0             j=0


converges uniformly because u ∈ D. Next, we need to show that

                         1                                ∂
                           [gv (W + h, ξ) − gv (W, ξ)] →    gv (W, ξ)                          (46)
                         h                               ∂W
and the convergence is uniform for all ξ. Note that
                    ∫     [ (      ∑J                  )]    (    ∑J               )
     ∂
        gv (W, ξ) =    DI v W +            ξ j (Rj − 1) · v ′ W +      ξ j (Rj − 1) dP
   ∂W                Ω                 j=0                         j=0




                                               42
and
                              [ (         ∑J                   )]    [ (       ∑J                   )]
gv (W + h, ξ) − gv (W, ξ) = I v W + h +            ξ j (Rj − 1) − I v W +               ξ j (Rj − 1)
                            ∫                  j=0                                  j=0
                                  [ ( )]
                          =    DI v̄ t̂ (v̄ (1) − v̄ (0)) dP, f or some t̂ ∈ (0, 1) ,
                                    Ω
                           (         ∑                     )             ( ∑               )
where we denote v̄ (t) = tv W + h + Jj=0 ξ j (Rj − 1) + (1 − t) v W + Jj=0 ξ j (Rj − 1)
                                                        (       ∑           )
and applied equation (41). Also, denote v̄ ′ (0) = v ′ W − Jj=0 ξ j (Rj − 1) , then the right
                                   ∫
hand side of (46) can be written as Ω DI [v̄ (0)] v̄ ′ (0) dP , we have:
             ∫                                     ∫
        1          [ ( )]
                 DI v̄ t̂ (v̄ (1) − v̄ (0)) dP −        DI [v̄ (0)] v̄ ′ (0) dP
        h    Ω                                     Ω
             ∫[ ( )]                             ∫  [ ( )]
         1
          DI v̄ t̂ (v̄ (1) − v̄ (0)) dP − Ω DI v̄ t̂ v̄ ′ (0) dP
   =    Ωh  ∫     [ ( )]                 ∫
          + Ω DI v̄ t̂ v̄ ′ (0) dP − Ω DI [v̄ (0)] v̄ ′ (0) dP
     ∫                                                 ∫
           [ ( )] 1                            ′
                                                                [ ( )]
   ≤    DI v̄ t̂       (v̄ (1) − v̄ (0)) − v̄ (0) dP +     DI v̄ t̂ − DI [v̄ (0)] |v̄ ′ (0)| dP
      Ω             h                                   Ω
         [ ( )] 1                                       [  ( )]
   ≤ DI v̄ t̂        (v̄ (1) − v̄ (0)) − v̄ ′ (0) + DI v̄ t̂ − DI [v̄ (0)] ∥v̄ ′ (0)∥        (47)
                  h

Because v ∈ D, for h small enough, h1 (v̄ (1) − v̄ (0)) − v̄ ′ (0) ≤ ε with probability one. Also,
                                           [ ( )]                            ()
because DI is Lipschitz continuous, DI v̄ t̂ − DI [v̄ (0)] ≤ K v̄ t̂ − v̄ (0) ≤ K 2 h,
where the second inequality is due to the Lipschitz continuity of v. This proves the uniform
convergence of (47).

Lemma B.2. Suppose u ∈ D, then both T + and T − map D into D.
   Proof: It follows from Lemma B.1 that for any v ∈ D, we can apply Theorem 3 in
Milgrom and Segal (2002) and establish that both T + v and T − v are diﬀerentiable, and

 d +            (    ∑J             )
   T v (W ) = u′ W −       ξ j (W )
dW            ∫        j=0
 d −               [ (     ∑J                        )]    (    ∑J                    )
   T v (W ) =    DI v W +           ξ j (W ) (Rj − 1) · v ′ W +      ξ j (W ) (Rj − 1) dP,
dW                              j=0                              j=0


where ξ (W ) denotes the utility-maximizing portfolio at W .
   To see that T + v (W ) is Lipschitz continuous, note that

fv (W1 , ξ (W2 ))−fv (W2 , ξ (W2 )) ≤ T + v (W1 )−T + v (W2 ) ≤ fv (W1 , ξ (W1 ))−fv (W2 , ξ (W1 )) .
                                                                                               (48)

                                                       43
                                                 (       ∑       )     (      ∑      )
Because ∀ξ, |fv (W1 , ξ) − fv (W2 , ξ)| =       u W1 − Jj=0 ξ j − u W2 − Jj=0 ξ j        ≤
K |W1 − W2 |, where K is a Lipschitz constant for u, |T v (W1 ) − T v (W2 )| ≤ K |W1 − W2 |.
                                                       +           +

We can prove that T − v (W ) is Lipschitz continuous in a similar way:

gv (W1 , ξ (W2 ))−g v (W2 , ξ (W2 )) ≤ T − v (W1 )−T − v (W2 ) ≤ gv (W1 , ξ (W1 ))−gv (W2 , ξ (W1 )) .
                                                                                                (49)
Note that ∀ξ,
                                [ (     ∑J               )]   [ (    ∑J                )]
|gv (W1 , ξ) − g v (W2 , ξ)| = I v W1 +      ξ j (Rj − 1) − I v W2 +       ξ j (Rj − 1)
                                         j=0                           j=0
                                  (     ∑J               )   (     ∑J              )
                             ≤ K v W1 +      ξ j (Rj − 1) − v W2 +    ξ j (Rj − 1)
                                                  j=0                               j=0
                             ≤ K |W1 − W2 | ,
                                  2



where the inequalities are due to the Lipschitz continuity of I and v, respectively.
   In addition, equations (48) and (49) can be used to show that the family of functions
{T + v (W − a)}a and {T − v (W − a)}a are equi-diﬀerentiable. For example, let W1 → W2 ,

                                    1
                                         [fv (W1 , ξ) − fv (W2 , ξ)]
                                 W1 − W2
                                                           1
converges uniformly by Lemma B.1, and by equation (48), W1 −W 2
                                                                [T + v (W1 ) − T + v (W2 )]
must also converge uniformly.
    Finally, we note that if v ′ (x) > 0 for all x ∈ R, then [T + v] (W ) and [T − v] (W ) must
satisfy the same property by the envelope theorem.


    Proof of Theorem 1 In this section, we establish the existence of SDF as stated in
Theorem 1. To save notation, whenever convenient, we denote Rj (z) to be the one-period
                                                                 (        )
return of asset j that payoﬀ at history z. That is, if z = zt+ = zt− , s+   is a post-announcement
                              ( + −)                                    t
history, then Rj (z) ≡ RA,j st zt is an announcement return, and if z is of the form
      −
              (        )                      ( −         )
z = zt+1   = zt+ , s−
                    t+1 , then Rj (z) ≡ RP,j st+1 zt
                                                        +
                                                            is a post-announcement return. We
                                            −
write the portfolio selection problem at zt as
                             [    (    ∑J                ( ( )      )) − ]
                        max I Vzt+ W +                ζ j Rj zt+ − 1   zt .                      (50)
                         ζ                      j=0

                                                                       ( )
Clearly, no arbitrage implies that the risk-free announcement
                                                  [    (      return R0 zt+ = 1. )Because
                                                                                      ]
           [ −]                                             ∑J      ( ( +)     )    −
Vzt+ and I ·| zt are (Fréchet) diﬀerentiable, I Vzt+ W + j=0 ζ j Rj zt − 1        zt is


                                                 44
diﬀerentiable in ζ.24 Therefore, the first order condition with respect to ζ j implies that
                        [[        ] d                        ]
                                ′            ′
                                               ( ( +)    ) −
                    E DI Vzt+ (W )     V + (W ) Rj zt − 1 zt = 0,                                          (51)
                                   dW ′ zt
                                 ∑J           ( ( +)    )
where we denote W ′ = W +          j=0 ζ̂ j    Rj zt − 1 and ζ̂ is the optimal portfolio choice.
    The value function Vzt+ (·) in (50) is determined by the the agent’s portfolio choice problem
at zt+ after the announcement s+   t is made:

                      { (    ∑J                  )         [             (∑ J              ( − )) + ]}
       Vzt+ (W ) = max u W −                   ξ j + βI Vzt+1
                                                          −                          ξ j Rj zt−1  zt   .   (52)
                     ξ                  j=0                                    j=0


The envelope condition for (52) implies

                      d               (    ∑J      )               ( )
                        Vzt+ (W ) = u′ W −      ξ j = u′ (Ct ) = u′ C̄t ,
                     dW                     j=0


where the last equality uses the market clearing condition. Because consumption at time
t must equal to total endowment, C̄t , and because C̄t must be zt− measurable, so must
 d
   V + (W ).
dW zt
                                                    ( )
                                    d
   By our results in Appendix B.2, dW Vzt+ (W ) = u′ C̄t > 0 is zt− measurable, as a result,
(51) implies:              [    [        ]( ( )            ]
                                                       )
                         E DI Vzt+ (W ) Rj zt+ − 1 zt− = 0.                            (53)

As we show in Lemma B.4 in the next section, monotonicity of I guarantees that DI ≥ 0
with probability one. To derive an expression for A-SDF, we need to assume the following
slightly stronger regularity condition:

                    DI [X] > 0 with strictly positive probability for all X.25                             (54)

In this case, the A-SDF can be constructed as:
                                                           [         (              )]
                               (      )           DI V     W   zt+        zt− ,s+
                             m∗ s+  −
                                                  [ [    (          )]    ],    t
                                 t zt   =                                                                  (55)
                                                                        −
                                                E DI Vzt+ Wzt− ,s+t    zt
  24
    This is a version of the chain rule. See Proposition 1 in Chapter 7 of Luenberger (1997).
  25
    Note that monotonicity with respect to FSD implies that DI [X] ≥ 0 with probability one for all X. If
condition (54) does not hold, we must have DI [X] = 0 with probability one. If I is strictly monotone with
respect to FSD, then this cannot happen on an open set in L2 . Therefore, even without assuming (54), our
result implies that the A-SDF exists generically.



                                                      45
where Wz denote the equilibrium wealth of the agent at history z.          Because
 [ ∗ ( + −) −]
E m st zt zt = 1, we can write (53) as an asset pricing equation with A-SDF:
                                 [  (      )    (      )   ]
                                E m∗ ·| zt− RA,j ·| zt− zt− = 1.


    Now we constructed the A-SDF as the Fréchet derivative of the certainty equivalent
                            [       ]                                     (            )
functional. Because DI Vt+ (W ) is a linear functional on L2 Ω, Ft+ , P , it has a
                                     (          )
representation as an element in L2 Ω, Ft+ , P by the Riesz representation theorem. To
                                                                    (      −
                                                                             )
complete the proof of Theorem 1, we only need to show that m∗ s+      t zt     (can be represented
                                                                                          )
                                                      (       −
                                                                )
as a measurable function of continuation utility: m∗ s+ t   z t   = m ∗
                                                                        ◦ Vzt+   W  − +
                                                                                   zt ,st   for some
                                                   (      −
                                                            )
measurable function m∗ : R → R.26 That is, m∗ st zt depends on st only through the
                                                      +                        +

continuation utility. Note that our definition of monotonicity with respect to FSD implies
invariance with respect to distribution, that is, I [X] = I [Y ] whenever X and Y have the
same distribution (If X has the same distribution of Y then both X ≤F SD Y and Y ≥F SD X
are true). The following lemma establishes that invariance with respect to distribution
                                                                                   (         )implies
       ∗
         ( + −)
that m st zt is measurable with respect to the σ-field generated by Vzt+ Wzt− ,s+t .

Lemma B.3. If I is invariant with respect to distribution, then DI [X] can be represented
by a measurable function of X.
    Proof: Take any X ∈ L2 (Ω, F, P ), to prove that DI [X] is a measurable function of
X, it is enough to show that DI [X] is measurable with respect to the σ−field generated by
X (which we denote as σ (X)). Let T be a measure-preserving transformation such that the
invariant σ−field of T diﬀer from σ (X) only by measure zero sets (The assumption of a non-
atomic probability space guarantees the existence of such measure-preserving transformations.
See exercise 17.43 in Kechris (1995)). Below, we show that DI [X] is measurable with respect
to the invariant σ−field of T by deomonstrating DI [X] ◦ T = DI [X] with probability one.27
   Because the Fréchet derivative of I [X] is unique, to establish DI [X] = DI [X] ◦ T , we
show that DI [X] ◦ T is also a Fréchet derivative of I [·] at X. Because I [·] is Fréchet
diﬀerentiable, to show DI [X] ◦ T is the Fréchet derivative of I at X, it is enough to verify
that DI [X] ◦ T is a Gâteaux derivative, that is,
                                                        ∫
                         1
                     lim [V (X + αY ) − V (X)] =              (DI [X] ◦ T ) · Y dP                (56)
                     α→0 α                                Ω
  26
     In general, m∗ may depend on zt− . Here, with a slight abuse of notation, we denote m∗ both as the
A-SDF, which is an element of L2 , and as a measurable function R → R.
  27
     By Proposition 6.17 of Brieman (1992), the statement that DI [X] is measurable with respect to the
invariant σ−field of T is equivalent to DI [X] ◦ T = DI [X] with probability one.


                                                  46
for all Y ∈ L2 (Ω, F, P ).
   Because T is measure preserving and X is measurable with respect to the invariance
σ−field of T , X = X ◦ T with probability one. Therefore, V (X + αY ) = V (X ◦ T + αY ) =
V (X + αY ◦ T −1 ), where the second equality is due to the fact that T −1 is measure preserving,
and [X ◦ T + αY ] ◦ T −1 = X + αY ◦ T −1 has the same distribution with X ◦ T + αY . As a
result,

               1                          1[ (                 )    ]
                 [V (X + αY ) − V (X)] =    V X + αY ◦ T −1 − V (X)
               α                         ∫α
                                                    (         )
                                       =    DI [X] · Y ◦ T −1 dP,
                                         ∫Ω
                                       =    DI [X] ◦ T · Y dP,
                                                   Ω


where the last equality uses the fact that [DI [X] · (Y ◦ T −1 )] ◦ T = DI [X] ◦ T · Y have the
same distribution with DI [X] × Y ◦ T −1 . This proves (56).


B.3     Generalized          Risk      Sensitivity           and      the     Announcement
        Premium

We prove Theorem 2 in this section. Part 1 is straightforward given our results in the proof
                                                                                    (     −
                                                                                            )
of Theorem 1 in Appendix B.2. From equation (55), if I is expected utility, then m∗ s+t zt
                                     (     −
                                             )
must be a constant. Conversely, if m∗ s+
                                       t zt    is a constant, then I is linear and must have
an expected utility representation.
    We prove
    (    )     part 2) of theorem 2 in three steps. First, we use Lemma B.4 to establish that
m∗ Vzt+ is non-negative if and only if I is monotone with respect to FSD. Second, we prove
the equivalence between (a) and (b). Lemma( ) B.5 and B.6 jointly establish that generalized
                                        ∗
risk sensitivity of I is equivalent to m Vzt+ being a non-increasing function of Vzt+ . Finally,
we use Lemma B.7 to establish the equivalence between (b) and (c).
Lemma B.4. I is monotone with respect FSD if and only if DI [X] ≥ 0 a.s.
    Proof: Suppose DI [X] ≥ 0 a.s. for all X ∈ L2 (Ω, F, P ). Take any Y such that Y ≥ 0
a.s., using (40), we have:
                                            ∫ 1∫
                     I [X + Y ] − I [X] =             DI [X + tY ] Y dP dt ≥ 0.
                                             0   Ω


Conversely, suppose I is monotone with respect to FSD, we can prove DI [X] ≥ 0 a.s. by

                                                 47
contradiction. Suppose the latter is not true and there exist an A ∈ F with P (A) > 0 and
DI [X] < 0 on A. Because DI is continuous, we can assume that DI [X + tχA ] < 0 on A
for all t ∈ (0, ε) for ε small enough, where χA is the indicator function of A. Therefore,
                                           ∫ 1∫
                   I [X + χA ] − I [X] =             DI [X + tχA ] χA dP dt < 0,
                                             0   Ω

contradicting monotonicity with respect to FSD.
                                                                          ( )
    Next, we show that I is monotone with respect to SSD if and only if m∗ Vzt+ is non-
increasing in Vzt+ . We first prove the following lemma.

Lemma B.5. I is monotone with respect SSD if and only if ∀X ∈ L2 (Ω, F, P ), for any
σ−field G ⊆ F ,       ∫
                                   DI [X] · (X − E [ X| G]) dP ≤ 0.                    (57)
                               Ω

   Proof: Suppose condition (57) is true, by the definition of SSD, for any X and Y such
that E [ Y | X] = 0, we need to prove

                                       I (X) ≥ I (X + Y ) .

Using (40),
                                ∫ 1∫
      I (X + Y ) − I (X) =         DI [X + tY ] Y dP dt
                                   0   Ω
                              ∫ 1 ∫
                                 1
                            =        DI [X + tY ] {tY + X − X − tE [Y | X]} dP dt
                               0 t Ω
                              ∫ 1 ∫
                                 1
                            =        DI [X + tY ] {[X + tY ] − E [X + tY | X]} dP dt
                               0 t Ω
                            ≤ 0,

where the last inequality uses (57).
   Conversely, assuming I is increasing in SSD, we prove (57) by contradiction. if (57) is
not true, then by the continuity of DI [X], for some ε > 0, ∀t ∈ (0, ε),
                   ∫
                        DI [(1 − t) X + tE [X| G]] · (X − E [X| G]) dP > 0.
                    Ω




                                                 48
Therefore,
                                            ∫ ε∫
I [(1 − ε) X + εE [ X| G]]−I [X] =                    DI [(1 − t) X + tE [X| G]] {E [X| G] − X} dP dt < 0.
                                             0    Ω


However, (1 − ε) X + εE [ X| G] ≥SSD X, a contradiction.28

   Due to Lemma B.3, DI [X] can be represented by a measurable function of X, we denote
DI [X] = η (X). To establish the equivalence
                                        ( )       between monotonicity with respect to SSD
                                      ∗
and the negative monotonicity of m Vzt+ , we only need to prove that condition (57) is
equivalent to η (·) being a non-increasing function, which is Lemma B.6 below.

Lemma B.6. Condition (57) is equivalent to η (X) being a non-increasing function of X
with probability one.
   Proof: First, we assume η (X) is non-increasing with probability one. To prove (57),
note that E [X| G] is measurable with respect to σ (X), and we can use the law of iterated
expectation to write:
            ∫
               DI [X] · (X − E [X| G]) dP = E [η (X) · (X − E [X| G])]
                                                        ≤ E [η (E [X| G]) · (X − E [X| G])]
                                                        = 0,

where the inequality follows from the fact that η (X) ≤ η (E [ X| G]) when X ≥ E [X| G] and
η (X) ≥ η (E [X| G]) when X ≤ E [X| G].
    Second, to prove the converse of the above statement by contradiction, we assume (57) is
true, but η (x) is not non-decreasing with probability one. That is, there exist x1 < x2 , both
occur with positive probability such that η (x1 ) < η (x2 ). Under this assumption, we construct
a random variable Y :               {
                                        0,    if X = x1 or x2
                                Y =                               ,
                                       X,          otherwise
  28
     An easy way to prove the statement, (1 − ε) X + εE [ X| G] ≥SSD X is to observe that an equivalent
definition of SSD is X1 ≥SSD X2 if E [ϕ (X1 )] ≥ E [ϕ (X2 )] for all concave functions ϕ (see Rothschild and
Stiglitz (1970) and Werner (2009)). To see (1 − ε) X + εE [ X| G] ≥SSD X, take any concave function ϕ,
we have ϕ ((1 − ε) X + εE [ X| G]) ≥ (1 − ε) ϕ (X) + εϕ (E [ X| G]). Taking conditional expectation on both
sides, E [ ϕ ((1 − ε) X + εE [ X| G])| G] ≥ (1 − ε) E [ ϕ (X)| G] + εϕ (E [ X| G]). Note that (1 − ε) E [ ϕ (X)| G] +
εϕ (E [ X| G]) = E [ ϕ (X)| G]+ε {ϕ (E [ X| G]) − E [ ϕ (X)| G]} ≥ E [ ϕ (X)| G], because ϕ is concave. Therefore,
E [ ϕ ((1 − ε) X + εE [ X| G])| G] ≥ E [ ϕ (X)| G]. Taking unconditional expectation on both sides, we have
E [ϕ ((1 − ε) X + εE [ X| G])] ≥ E [ϕ (X)], as needed.



                                                         49
and denote P1 = P (X = x1 ), P2 = P (X = x2 ). Note that
                      ∫
                          DI [X] · (X − E [X| Y ]) dP
                      ∫
                  =    η (X) · (X − E [X| Y ]) dP
                              [                      ]             [                     ]
                                     P1 x 1 + P2 x 2                     P 1 x1 + P 2 x2
                  = P1 η (x1 ) x1 −                    + P2 η (x2 ) x2 −
                                        P1 + P2                             P1 + P2
                    P1 P2 (x2 − x1 ) [η (x2 ) − η (x1 )]
                  =                                      > 0,
                                 P 1 + P2

which contradict condition (57).

       The following lemma establishes the equivalence between (b) and (c).

Lemma B.7. That m∗ (V ) is a non-increasing function of V is equivalent to (c).
                                                                      (     )
  Proof: If m∗ (·) is a non-decreasing function, then for any payoﬀ f ·| zt− that is co-
               (      )
monotone with V ·| zt− , we have
           [ ( (       )) (     )]  [ ( (        ))] [ ( − )]    [ (      )]
          E m∗ V ·| zt− f ·| zt− ≤ E m∗ V ·| zt−    E f ·| zt = E f ·| zt− ,
          ( (      ))    (      )
because m∗ V ·| zt− and f ·| zt− are negatively correlated.29
    We prove that (c) implies (b) by contradiction. Suppose that the announcement premium
                                                              (    )
is non-negative for all payoﬀs that are co-monotone with V ·| zt− , but m∗ (v1 ) < m∗ (v2 ) for
                                                                                  ( (       ))
some v1 < v2 , both of which occur with positive probability. Consider the payoﬀ g V ·| zt− ,
where g is a function defined on the real line:
                                             
                                             
                                              1 if v = v2
                                     g (v) =   −1 if v = v1 .
                                             
                                             
                                                0 otherwise
                        ( (      ))                                           (      )
Note       that       g V ·| zt−         is     co-monotone       with      V ·| zt−
          [ ( (        )) ( (       ))]     [ ( (     ))]
and yet E m∗ V ·| zt− g V ·| zt−        > E g V ·| zt− , contradicting a non-negative
              ( (      ))
premium for g V ·| zt− .
  29
    Note that the same argument implies that if m∗ (·) is a non-decreasing function, then
                                                                                       ( the −announcement
                                                                                               )
premium must be non-negative for the following more general class of payoﬀs: f s+         t zt   + ε, where
  [           ]
E ε| zt− , s+
            t   = 0.




                                                    50
Appendix C               Generalized Risk-Sensitive Preferences

C.1     Generalized risk sensitivity and uncertainty aversion

In this section, we provide proofs for results for the relationship between generalized risk
sensitivity and uncertainty aversion discussed in Section 4.3 of the paper.

   • Quasiconcavity implies generalized risk sensitivity.
      The following lemma formalizes the above statement.

      Lemma C.1. Suppose I : L2 (Ω, F, P ) → R is continuous and invariant with respect
      to distribution, then quasiconcavity implies generalized risk sensitivity.

      Proof. Suppose I is continuous, invariant with respect to distribution, and
      quasiconcave. Let X1 ≥SSD X2 , we need to show that I [X1 ] ≥ I [X2 ]. By the
      definition of second order stochastic dominance and the assumption of a non-atomic
      probability space, there exists a random variable Y such that E [ Y | X1 ] = 0 and X2 has
      the same distribution as X1 + Y . Because I is invariant with respect to distribution,
      I [X1 + Y ] = I [X2 ]. Let T : Ω → Ω be any measure preserving transformation such
      that the invariant σ−field of T diﬀers from the σ−field generated by X only by sets of
      measure zero (see exercise 17.43 in Kechris (1995)), then quasiconcavity implies that
              [                          ]
              1            1
            I   (X1 + Y ) + (X1 + Y ) ◦ T ≥ min {I [X1 + Y ] , I [(X1 + Y ) ◦ T ]} .
              2            2

      Note that because T is measure preserving and I is distribution invariant, we
                                                             [                              ]
      have I [X1 + Y ] = I [(X1 + Y ) ◦ T ] . Therefore, I 21 (X1[+ Y ) + 21 (X1 + Y ) ◦ T ] ≥
                                                                     ∑ −1
      I [X1 + Y ]. It is therefore straightforward to show that I N1 N   j=0 (X1 + Y ) ◦ T    ≥
                                                                                           j
                                                                   ∑N −1
      I [X1 + Y ] for all N by induction.             Note that N j=0 (X1 + Y ) ◦ T j →
                                                                 1

      E [X1 + Y | X1 ] = X1 by Birkhoﬀ’s ergodic theorem (note that the invariance σ−field of
      T is σ (X) by construction). Continuity of I then implies I [X1 ] ≥ I [X1 + Y ] = I [X2 ],
      that is, I satisfies generalized risk sensitivity.

   • Qusiconcavity is not necessary for generalized risk sensitivity.
      It is clear from Lemma C.1 that under continuity, the following condition is suﬃcient




                                              51
for generalized risk sensitivity:

I [λX + (1 − λ) Y ] ≥ I [X] f or all λ ∈ [0, 1] if X and Y have the same distribution.
                                                                                  (58)
Clearly, this condition is weaker than quasiconcavity.
Here, we provide a counterexample of I that satisfies generalized risk sensitivity but
is not quasiconcave. We continue to use the two-period example in Section 3, where
we assume π (H) = π (L) = 21 . Given there are two states, random variables can be
represented as vectors. We denote X = {(xH , xL ) : 0 ≤ xH , xL ≤ B} to be the set of
random variables bounded by B. Let I be the certainty equivalent functional defined
on X such that
                                  {                 }
                               −1
            ∀X ∈ X, I [X] = ϕ       min E [mϕ (X)] , with ϕ (x) = ex ,            (59)
                                       m∈M

         {                             {         }     }
where M = (mH , mL ) : mH + mL = 1, max m H
                                            ,
                                         mL mH
                                              mL
                                                   ≤ η   is a collection of density
of probability measures and the parameter η ≥ eB . Note that I defined in (59) is not
concave because ϕ (x) is a strictly convex function. Below we show that I satisfies
generalized risk sensitivity, but is not quasiconcavity.
Using (58), to establish generalized risk sensitivity, we need to show that for any X,
Y ∈ X such that X and X have the same distribution, I [λX + (1 − λ) Y ] ≥ I [X].
Without loss of generality, we assume X = [xH , xL ] with xH > xL . Because Y has the
                                                                        [ ]
same distribution with X, Y = [xL , xH ]. We first show that for all λ ∈ 12 , 1 ,

                               I [λX + (1 − λ) Y ] ≥ I [X] .
                                                                           [1    ]
Because ϕ is strictly increasing, it is enough to prove that for all λ ∈    2
                                                                              , 1  ,

                               d
                                 ϕ (I [λX + (1 − λ) Y ]) ≤ 0.                          (60)
                              dλ

Because xH > xL , for all λ ≥ 21 , λxH + (1 − λ) xL ≥ λxL + (1 − λ) xH and

                            1                           1
   ϕ (I [λX + (1 − λ) Y ]) = m∗H ϕ (λxH + (1 − λ) xL ) + m∗L ϕ (λxL + (1 − λ) xH ) ,
                            2                           2




                                         52
  where mH + mL = 1 and mH
                        mL
                           = η1 . Therefore,

   d                           1 ∗ ′
     ϕ (I [λX + (1 − λ) Y ]) =   [m ϕ (λxH + (1 − λ) xL ) − m∗L ϕ′ (λxL + (1 − λ) xH )] (xH − xL )
  dλ                           2 H
                               1           {                                     }
                             =   (xH − xL ) m∗H eλxH +(1−λ)xL − m∗L eλxL +(1−λ)xH .
                               2
  Note that
                       m∗H eλxH +(1−λ)xL  1                  1
                         ∗ λxL +(1−λ)xH
                                         = e(2λ−1)(xH −xL ) ≤ eB ≤ 1.
                       mL e               η                  η
                                                                                     [ ]
  This proves (60). Similarly, one can prove I [λX + (1 − λ) Y ] ≥ I [Y ] for all λ ∈ 0, 12 .
  This established generalized risk sensitivity.
  To see I is not quasiconcave, consider X1 = [1, 0], and X2 = [x, x], where x = ln η+1
                                                                                    η+e
                                                                                        .
                                                [1           ]
  One can verify that I [X1 ] = I [X2 ], but I 2 X1 + 2 X2 < I [X1 ], contradicting
                                                         1

  quasiconcavity.

• For second-order expected utility, the concavity of ϕ is equivalent to generalized risk
  sensitivity.

  Proof. certainty equivalent functionals of the form I [V ] = ϕ−1 (E [ϕ (V )]), where ϕ
  is strictly increasing is called second-order expected utility in Ergin and Gul (2009).
  For this class of preferences, generalized risk sensitivity is equivalent to quasiconcavity,
  which is also equivalent to the concavity of ϕ. To see this, suppose ϕ is concave,
  it is straightforward to show that I [·] is quasiconcave and satisfies generalized risk
  sensitivity by Lemma C.1. Conversely, suppose I [·] satisfies generalized risk sensitivity
  then E [ϕ (X)] ≥ E [ϕ (Y )] whenever X ≥SSD Y . By remark B on page 240 of
  Rothschild and Stiglitz (1970), ϕ is concave.

• Within the class of smooth ambiguity-averse preferences, uncertainty aversion is
  equivalent to generalized risk sensitivity.

  Proof. Using the results in Klibanoﬀ, Marinacci, and Mukerji (2005, 2009), it
  straightforward to show that for the class of smooth ambiguity preferences, concavity
  of ϕ is equivalent to the quasiconcavity of I. As a result, quasiconcavity implies
  generalized risk sensitivity by Lemma C.1. The nontrivial part of the above claim
  is that generalized risk sensitivity implies the concavity of ϕ. To see this is true, note
  that invariance with respect to distribution implies that the probability measure µ (x)



                                           53
      must satisfy the following property: for all A ∈ F ,
                                     ∫ ∫
                                           dPx dµ (x) = P (A) .
                                            A


      Clearly, generalized risk sensitivity implies that I [E [V ]] ≥ I [V ], for all V ∈
      L2 (Ω, F, P ). That is,   ∫
                                     ϕ (E x [V ]) dµ (x) ≤ ϕ (E [V ]) .
                                                                                ∫
      The fact that the above inequality has to hold for all V and E [V ] =         E x [V ] dµ (x)
      implies that ϕ must be concave.


C.2     Generalized risk sensitivity and preference for early resolution
        of uncertainty

Below, we provide detailed examples and proofs for the discussions on the relationship
between preference for early resolution of uncertainty and generalized risk sensitivity in
Section 4.3.

   • An example that satisfies generalized risk sensitivity but strictly prefers late resolution
     of uncertainty.

      Example 1. Consider the following utility function in the two period example:
                                                              ( √ )2
                u (C) = C − b,    where b = 2;         I (X) = E X ; and β = 1.

      It straight forward to check that I is quasiconcave therefore satisfy generalized risk
      sensitivity. Below we verify that this utility function prefers late resolution of
      uncertainty when the following consumption plan is presented: C0 = 1, CH = 3.21,
      and CL = 3, where the distribution of consumption is given by π (H) = π (L) = 12 .
      The utility with early resolution of uncertainty is given by:

                                     V E = I [u (C0 ) + u (C1 )] .

      It is straightforward to show that:

                           u (C0 ) + u (CH ) = 0.21;    u (C0 ) + u (CL ) = 0


                                                54
  Therefore,                      [     √            √ ]2
                         V   E
                                 = 0.5 × 0.21 + 0.5 × 0 = 0.0525

  The utility for late resolution of uncertainty is given by:

                                 V L = u (C0 ) + I [u (C1 )] = 0.1025.


• An example of I that prefers early resolution of uncertainty but is strictly decreasing
  in second order stochastic dominance.

  Example 2. Consider the following preference:
                                                              √
               u (C) = C − b with b = 2;            I (X) =    E [X 2 ]; and β = 1.

  Because X 2 is a strictly convex function, the certainty equivalent functional I is strictly
  decreasing in second-order stochastic dominance. To see that the agent prefers early
  resolution of uncertainty, we consider the same numerical example as in Example 1. It
  is straightforward to verify that the utility for early resolution of uncertainty is

                                 V E = I [u (C0 ) + u (C1 )] = 0.1485,

  and the utility for later resolution is:

                                  V L = u (C0 ) + I [u (C1 )] = 0.11.


• Generalized risk sensitivity and indiﬀerence toward the timing of resolution of
  uncertainty implies representation (24).

  Proof. By Lemma 1 and the proof of Theorem 1 in Strzalecki (2013), indiﬀerence
  between timing of resolution of uncertainty implies that I satisfies that for all X ∈
  L2 (Ω, F, P ), all a ≥ 0, I [a + X] = a + I [X]. Take derivatives with respect to a and
  evaluate at a = 0, we have:         ∫
                                            DI [X] dP = 1.                               (61)




                                               55
Note that because I is normalized, I [0] = 0. Therefore, ∀X ∈ L2 (Ω, F, P ),

                           I [X] = I [X] − I [0]
                                   ∫ 1∫
                                 =       DI [tX] XdP dt
                                    0
                                   ∫ ∫ 1
                                 =       DI [tX] dtXdP.
                                             0

            ∫ ∫1
Note that      0
                 DI [tX] dtdP = 1 is a density, because of (61). In addition, generalized
risk sensitivity implies that for each t,

                  [DI [tX] (ω) − DI [tX] (ω ′ )] [X (ω) − X (ω ′ )] ≤ 0.            (62)
            ∫1
Therefore, 0 DI [tX] dt must satisfy (62) as well. By the result of Carlier and Dana
        ∫ ∫1
(2003),     0
              DI [tX] dtXdP can be represented by minimization with respect to the
core of a convex distortion of P .




                                        56
References
Ai, H. (2005): “Smooth Nonexpected Utility with State Independence,” Federal Reserve Bank of
  Minneapolis Working Paper 637.

         (2010): “Information Quality and Long-Run Risk: Asset Pricing Implications,” Journal
  of Finance, LXV(4), 1333–1367.

Alvarez, F., and U. Jermann (2004): “Using Asset Prices to Measure the Cost of Business
  Cycles,” Journal of Political Economy, 112(6), 1223–1256.

       (2005): “Using Asset Prices to Measure the Persistence of the Marginal Utility of Wealth,”
  Econometrica, 73(6), 1977–2016.

Ball, R., and S. P. Kothari (1991): “Security Returns around Earnings Announcements,” The
 Accounting Review, 66(4), 718–738.

Bansal, R. (2007): “Long Run Risks and Financial Markets,” The Review of the St. Louis Federal
 Reserve Bank, 89(4), 1–17.

Bansal, R., and B. N. Lehmann (1997): “Growth-Optimal Portfolio Restrictions on Asset
 Pricing Models,” Macroeconomic Dynamics, 1, 333–354.

Bansal, R., and I. Shaliastovich (2011): “Learning and Asset Price Jumps,” Review of
 Financial Studies, 24(8), 2738–2780.

        (2013): “A Long-Run Risks Explanation of Predictability Puzzles in Bond and Currency
  Markets,” Review of Financial Studies, 26(1), 1–33.

Bansal, R., and A. Yaron (2004): “Risk for the Long Run: A Potential Resolution of Asset
 Pricing Puzzles,” The Journal of Finance, 59(4), 1481–1509.

Beaudry, P., and F. Portier (2004): “An exploration into Pigou’s theory of cycles,” Journal
  of Monetary Economics, 51, 1183–1216.

         (2014): “News-Driven Business Cycles: Insights and Challenges,” Journal of Economic
  Literature, 52(4), 993–1074.

Bernile, G., J. Hu, and Y. Tang (2016): “Can information be locked up? Informed trading
  ahead of macro-news announcements,” Journal of Financial Economics, 52(4), 993–1074.

Boldrin, M., L. Christiano, and J. Fisher (2001): “Habit persistence, asset returns, and the
 business cycle,” American Economic Review, 91(1), 149–166.



                                               57
Brieman, L. (1992): Probability. SIAM: Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics.

Brusa, F., P. Savor, and M. Wilson (2015): “One Central Bank to Rule Them All,” Working
  paper, Temple University.

Campbell, J. Y., and J. H. Cochrane (1999): “By Force of Habit: A Consumption-based
 Explanation of Aggregate Stock Market Behavior,” Journal of Political Economy, 107(2), 205–
 255.

Carlier, G., and R.-A. Dana (2003): “Core of Convex Distortions of a Probability,” Journal of
 Economic Theory, 113, 199–222.

Chari, V., R. Jagannathan, and A. R. Ofer (1988): “Seasonalities in security returns: The
 case of earnings announcements,” Journal of Financial Economics, 21(1), 101–121.

Chateauneuf, A., and J. H. Faro (2009): “Ambiguity through confidence functions,” Journal
 of Mathematical Economics, 45(9-10), 535–558.

Chen, Z., and L. Epstein (2002): “Ambiguity, Risk, and Asset Returns in Continuous Time,”
 Econometrica, 70(4), 1403–1443.

Cieslak, A., A. Morse, and A. Vissing-Jorgensen (2015): “Stock Returns over the FOMC
  Cycle,” Working paper, UC Berkeley.

Constantinides, G. M. (1990): “Habit Formation: A Resolution of the Equity Premium Puzzle,”
 The Journal of Political Economy, 98(3), 519–543.

Duffie, D. (2010): “Presidential Address: Asset Price Dynamics with Slow-Moving Capital,” The
 Journal of Finance, 65(4), 1237–1267.

Duffie, D., and L. G. Epstein (1992): “Stochastic Diﬀerential Utility,” Econometrica, 60(2),
 353–394.

Dunn, K., and K. Singleton (1986): “Modeling The Term Structure of Interest Rates under
 Non-Separable Utility and Durability of Goods,” Journal of Financial Economics, 17, 27–55.

Echenique, F., and K. Saito (2015): “Savage in the Market,” Econometrica, 83(4).

Epstein, L., and M. Schneider (2003): “Recursive multiple-priors,” Journal of Economic
  Theory, 113(1), 1–31.

        (2010): “Ambiguity and Asset Markets,” Annual Reviews of Financial Markets, 2, 315–334.

Epstein, L., and S. E. Zin (1989): “Substitution, Risk Aversion, and the Temporal Behavior of
  Consumption and Asset Returns: A Theoretical Framework,” Econometrica, 57(4), 937–969.

                                              58
Epstein, L. G. (2000): “Are Probabilities Used in Markets,” Journal of Economic Theory, 91(1),
  1469–1479.

Ergin, H., and F. Gul (2009): “A Theory of Subjective Compound Lotteries,” Journal of
  Economic Theory, 144, 899–929.

Farhi, E., and I. Werning (2008): “Optimal Savings Distortions with Recursive Preferences,”
  Journal of Monetary Economics, Carnegie Rochester Series, 55(1), 21–42.

Gallant, A. R., L. P. Hansen, and G. Tauchen (1990): “Using Conditional Moments of
 Asset Payoﬀs to Infer The Volatility of Intertemporal Marginal Rates of Substitution,” Journal
 of Econometrics, 45, 141–179.

Gilboa, I., and D. Schmeidler (1989): “Maxmin expected utility with non-unique prior,”
  Journal of Mathematical Economics, 18(2), 141–153.

Green, R. C., and S. Srivastava (1986): “Expected utility maximization and demand behavior,”
 Journal of Economic Theory, 38(2), 313–323.

Gul, F. (1991): “A Theory of Disappointment Aversion,” Econometrica, 59(3), 667–686.

Hall, R. E. (1978): “Stochastic Implications of the Life Cycle–Permanent Income Hypothesis:
 Theory and Evidence,” Journal of Political Economy, 86(6), 971–987.

Hansen, L. P., J. C. Heaton, and N. Li (2008): “Consumption strikes back? Measuring
 long-run risk,” Journal of Political Economy, 116(2), 260–302.

Hansen, L. P., and R. Jagannathan (1991): “Implications of Security Market Data for Models
 of Dynamic Economies,” Journal of Political Economy, 99(2), 225–262.

Hansen, L. P., and T. Sargent (2008): Robustness. Princeton, New Jersey: Princeton University
 Press.

Hansen, L. P., and T. J. Sargent (2001): “Robust Control and Model Uncertainty,” American
 Economic Review, Papers and Proceedings of the Hundred Thirteenth Annual Meeting of the
 American Economic Association, 91(2), 60–66.

         (2005): “Robust Estimation and Control under Commitment,” Journal of Economic
  Theory, 124(2), 258–301.

        (2007): “Recursive Robust Estimation and Control without Commitment,” Journal of
  Economic Theory, 136(1), 1–27.

        (2012): “Three Types of Amniguity,” Working paper, New York University.

                                              59
Hayashi, T., and J. Miao (2011): “Intertemporal Substitution and Recursive Smooth Ambiguity
 Preferences,” Theoretical Economics, 121(3), 496–520.

Heaton, J. (1993): “The Interaction between Time-Nonseparable Preferences and Time
 Aggregation,” Econometrica, 61(2), 353–385.

Ju, N., and J. Miao (2012): “Ambiguity, Learning, and Asset Returns,” Econometrica, 80(2),
  559–591.

Karantounias, A. G. (2013): “Managing pessimistic expectations and fiscal policy,” Theoretical
 Economics, 8(1), 193–231.

         (2015): “Optimal Fiscal Policy with Recursive Preferences,” Federal Reserve Bank of
  Atlanta, Working Paper 2013-7.

Kechris, A. S. (1995): Classical Descriptive Set Theory. Springer-Verlag, NY, Inc.

Klibanoff, P., M. Marinacci, and S. Mukerji (2005): “A Smooth Model of Decision Making
 under Ambiguity,” Econometrica, 73(6), 1849–1892.

        (2009): “Recursive Smooth Ambiguity Preferences,” Journal of Economic Theory, 144(3),
  930–976.

Kreps, D. M., and E. L. Porteus (1978): “Temporal Resolution of Uncertainty. and Dynamic
 Choice Theory,” Econometrica, 46(1), 185–200.

Kubler, F., L. Selden, and X. Wei (2014): “Asset Demand Based Tests of Expected Utility
 Maximization,” American Economic Review, 104(11), 3459–3480.

Kwon, H., and J. Miao (2013a): “Three Types of Robust Ramsey Problem in a Linear-Quadratic
 Framework,” Working paper, Boston University.

        (2013b): “Woodford’s Approach to Robust Policy Analysis in a Linear-Quadratic
  Framework,” Working paper, Boston University.

Lucca, D. O., and E. Moench (2015): “The Pre-FOMC Announcement Drift,” The Journal of
  Finance, LXX(1).

Luenberger, D. G. (1997): Optimization by Vector Space Methods. Wiley-Interscience; 1969
  edition.

Maccheroni, F., M. Marinacci, and A. Rustichini (2006a): “Ambiguity Aversion,
 Robustness, and the Variational Representation of Preferences,” Econometrica, 74(6), 1447–1498.



                                              60
         (2006b): “Dynamic variational preferences,” Journal of Economic Theory, 128(1), 4–44.

Machina, M. J. (1982): “”Expected Utility” Analysis without the Independence Axiom,”
 Econometrica, 50(2), 277–323.

Marshall, A. W., B. C. Arnold, and I. Olkin (2011): Inequalities: Theory of Majorization
 and Its Applications. Springer.

Milgrom, P., and I. Segal (2002):           “Envelope Theorems for Arbitrary Choice Sets,”
 Econometrica, 70(2), 583–601.

Mueller, P., A. Tahbaz-Salehi, and A. Vedolin (2017): “Exchange Rates andMonetary
 Policy Uncertainty,” Journal of Finance, Accepted Author Manuscript. doi:10.1111/jofi.12499.

Muller, A., and D. Stoyan (2002): Comparison Methods for Stochastic Models and Risks. Wiley
 Series in Probability and Statistics, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Parker, J. A., and C. Julliard (2005): “Consumption Risk and the Cross Section of Expected
  Returns,” Journal of Political Economy, 113(1), 185–222.

Piazzesi, M., and M. Schneider (2006): “Equilibrium Yield Curves,” NBER Macroeconomics
  Annual.

Rothschild, M., and J. E. Stiglitz (1970): “Increasing Risk: A Definition,” Journal of
 Economic Theory, (2), 225–243.

Routledge, B. R., and S. E. Zin (2010): “Generalized Disappointment Aversion and Asset
 Prices,” The Journal of Finance, 65(4), 1303–1332.

Savor, P., and M. Wilson (2013): “How Much Do Investors Care About Macroeconomic Risk?
  Evidence from Scheduled Economic Announcement,” Journal of Financial and Quantitative
  Analysis, 48(2), 343–375.

Skiadas, C. (2009): Asset pricing theory. Princeton University Press.

         (2013): “Smooth Ambiguity Aversion toward Small Risks and Continuous-Time Recursive
  Utility,” Journal of Political Economy, 121(4).

Strzalecki, T. (2011): “Axiomatic Foundations of Multiplier Preferences,” Econometrica, 79(1),
  47–73.

        (2013): “Temporal resolution of uncertainty and recursive models ambiguity aversion,”
  Econometrica, 81(3), 1039–1074.



                                               61
Tapia, R. A. (1971): “The Diﬀerentiation and Integration of Nonlinear Operators,” in Nonlinear
  Functional Analysis and Applications, ed. by L.B.Rall, pp. 45–101. Academic Press, New York.

Wang, T. (1993): “Lp-Fréchet Diﬀerentiable Preference and ”Local Utility” Analysis,” Journal of
 Economic Theory, 61(1), 139–159.

Werner, J. (2009): “Risk and Risk Aversion When States of Nature Matter,” Economic Theory,
 41, 231–246.

Woodford, M. (2010): “Robustly Optimal Monetary Policy with Near-Rational Expectations,”
 American Economic Review, 100(1), 274–303.




                                              62
                                            Table I
      Market Return on Announcement and Non-announcement Days

                           # days p. a.        daily prem.       daily std.      premium p.a.
 Market                    252                 2.46 bps          98.2 bps        6.19%
 Announcement              30                  11.21 bps         113.8 bps       3.36%
 No Announcement           222                 1.27 bps          95.9 bps        2.82%
 This table documents the mean and the standard deviation of the market excess return during the
1961-2014 period. The column “# days p.a.” is the average number of trading days per annum, the
second column is the daily market equity premium on all days, that on announcement days, and that
on days with no announcement. The column “daily std.” is the standard deviation of daily returns.
The column “premium p.a.” is the cumulative market excess returns within a year, which is computed
by multiplying the daily premium by the number of event days and converting it into percentage
points.




                                               63
                                    Table II
Average Daily Return around Announcements (Basis Points)


                                   -1                 0                +1
    All Announcements              1.77               11.21            0.84
                                   (2.86)             (2.96)           (3.22)
    All w/o FOMC                   0.69               9.28             0.99
                                   (2.78)             (3.05)           (3.24)
    No Announcement                −−−                1.27             −−−
                                                      (0.91)
 This table documents the average daily return during the 1961-2014 period in basis
points on event days (column “0”), that before event days (column “-1”), and
that after event days (column “+1”) with standard errors of the point estimates
in parenthesis. The row “All announcements” is the average event day return on
all announcement days; “All w/o FOMC” is the average event day return on all
announcement days except FOMC announcement days; and “No announcements” is
the average daily return on non-announcement days.




                                        64
                                                   Table III
                     Average hourly return around announcements

   Announcement window          −5        −4        −3     −2         −1        0        +1        +2
   All Announcements            0.78      3.25      2.00   −0.17      −1.51     6.16     −2.32     2.11
                                (0.26)    (2.34)    (1.85) (0.02)     (−1.64) (1.64) (−1.24) (0.90)
   FOMC                         13.35     13.54     7.65   3.37       4.78      0.19     5.84      −5.1
                                (2.43)    (2.45)    (3.08) (1.43)     (2.92)    (0.20) (0.82)      (−1.08)
   All w/o FOMC                 −0.37     0.42      0.94   −0.69      −2.96     6.88     −3.22     2.72
                                (−0.16) (0.72)      (0.37) (−0.30) (−2.53)      (1.26) (−1.43) (2.56)

 This table reports the average hourly excess return around announcements during the 1997-2013 period, with
standard errors of the point estimates in parenthesis. The announcement time is normalized as hour zero. For
k = −5, −4, · · · , 0, +1, +2, announcement window k stands for the interval between hour k − 1 and hour k. The
row “All announcements” is the average hourly return on all announcement days; “FOMC” is the average hourly
return on FOMC announcement days, and “All w/o FOMC” is the average hourly return on all announcement days
except FOMC announcement days.




                                                      65
      Appendix: Risk Preferences and The Macro Announcement
                             Premium
                                       Hengjie Ai and Ravi Bansal


A     The two-period model

In this section, we provide a formal derivation of the A-SDF in the two-period model. We also
establish the equivalence between Arrow-Debreu markets and sequential markets in the context of
our model. We show that both formulations lead to the same set of asset pricing equations.


A.1    The Arrow-Debreu market
         {     {       }N }
We use    C̄0 , C̄1 (s) s=1 to denote aggregate endowment in our two-period model and use
{C0 (s) , C1 (s)}Ns=1 as the consumption choice of the agent. From an individual agent’s perspective,
the decision for C0 is made after the announcement, and therefore can depend on s. Trading on the
Arrow-Debreu market happens in period 0− . Let q0 (s) be the period 0− price of an Arrow-Debreu
security that delivers one unit of consumption good in period 0+ and state s, for s = 1, 2, · · · , N .
Similarly, let q1 (s) be the Arrow-Debreu price of one unit of consumption good in period one and
state s. Because markets are complete, the utility maximization problem of the representative agent
can be written as:

                          max I [u (C0 (s)) + βu (C1 (s))]
                           ∑
                           N                                         ∑
                                                                     N
                                                                           [                              ]
           subject to :          [q0 (s) C0 (s) + q1 (s) C1 (s)] ≤             q0 (s) C̄0 + q1 (s) C̄1 (s)
                           s=1                                       s=1


    In the above setup, because the announcement is made at time 0+ , from the agent’s perspective,
consumption at time 0+ is allowed to depend on s, which we write as C0 (s). To save notation, as
in the paper, we denote Vs = u (C0 (s)) + βu (C1 (s)). Optimality implies that,

                                  ∂I [V ] ′                      ∂I [V ] ′
                     q0 (s) = λ          u (C0 (s)) , q1 (s) = λ        βu (C1 (s)) ,
                                   ∂Vs                            ∂Vs

where λ is the Lagrangian multiplier of the budget constraint. In equilibrium, market clearing
implies that C0 (s) = C̄0 for all s. If we normalize the price of one unit state-non-contingent
                                          ∑
consumption at time 0+ to be one, that is, Ns=1 q0 (s) = 1; then, for all s,

                                                      ∂I[V ]
                                           q0 (s) = ∑N ∂Vs∂I[V ] ,                                            (A.1)
                                                     s=1 ∂Vs

               ′
and qq10 (s)    u (C1 (s))
         (s) = β u′ (C0 ) . That is, we can simply use ratios of marginal utilities to compute Arrow-



                                                      1
Debreu prices. Clearly, (A.1) implies the expression of the A-SDF in equation (12) of the paper.


A.2    The sequential market

Here, we show that the two-period version of the sequential market setup described in Section 4
leads to the same asset pricing equation, (12). In period 0− , there is no consumption decision and
the agent chooses investment in a vector of announcement returns to maximize:
                                               [ ( )]
                                       max I V W ′
                                      {ξj }j=1
                                           J



                                        ′
                                                  ∑
                                                  J              ∑
                                                                 J
                     subject to : W = W −                 ξj +         ξ j RA,j (s) , all s,    (A.2)
                                                  j=1            j=1


where V (W ) = {Vs (W )}N
                        s=1 is a vector of value functions. For each s, the value function Vs (W ) is
defined by the optimal portfolio choice problem on the post-announcement market:

                                    Vs (W ) =    max u (C0 ) + βu (C1 )
                                                 C0 ,C1
                                subject to   :   C1 = (W − C0 ) RP,s .                          (A.3)

Note that RP,s is the return from period 0+ to period 1 after announcement s. Because the
announcement fully reveals the true state of the world, RP,s is a risk-free return.
   The first order condition for (A.2) with respect to ξ j implies that for any announcement returns
RA,j ,
                          ∑ ∂ [ ( )] ∂Vs (W ′ )
                           N
                                  I V W′              s
                                                         [RA,j (s) − 1] = 0,                   (A.4)
                          s=1
                              ∂Vs               ∂Ws′

where Ws′ denote the equilibrium wealth of the agent in period 0+ after announcement s. The
                                                  ′                   ( )
envelope condition for (A.3) implies that ∂V∂W
                                            s (Ws )
                                                ′   = u′ (C0 (s)) = u′ C̄0 , where the second equality
                                               s
uses the market clearing condition. As u′ > 0, equation (A.4) implies

                                ∑
                                N                  ′
                                      ∂Vs I [V (W )]
                                       ∂
                                    ∑N ∂              ′ )]
                                                           RA,j (s) = 1,
                                s=1  s=1  ∂Vs I [V (W

as in equation (11) of the paper.


A.3    The example of recursive utility

Here, we provide details of the computation of the A-SDF for the recursive utility in Section 3.2 of
the paper. We illustrate that because the announcement in our model leads uncertainty to resolve
before the realization of consumption shocks, the computation of utilities and therefore, marginal
utilities diﬀer from that in models in which resolution of uncertainty happens at the same time of


                                                    2
the realization of the consumption shocks.

                             Figure 1: Early and Late Resolution of Uncertainty




Figure 1 plots a consumption plan with early resolution of uncertainty (top panel) and a consumption plan with late
resolution of uncertainty.


   Figure 1 illustrates a two-period model with announcement and one without announcement.
The top panel is the same as that in Figure 2 in our main text, where the announcement at time
0+ fully reveals the true state and leads to early resolution of uncertainty. In the bottom panel
of Figure 1, due to the absence of announcement, the uncertainty is resolved in period 1 when
consumption is realized; that is, it is a case of late resolution of uncertainty.1
    We denote the utility at 0− in the case of early resolution as V E (C0 , {C1 (s)}ns=1 ). In the case
of late resolution, 0− and 0+ have the same utility level, which we denote as V L (C0 , {C1 (s)}ns=1 ).
In the case of early resolution, because there is no uncertainty in period 0+ , we first aggregate
                                                                    1                  1
                                                                 1− ψ               1− ψ
over time to compute the continuation utility as 1−1 1 C0               + β 1−1 1 C1       , and then aggregate over
                                                             ψ                 ψ
uncertain realizations of the announcement to compute its certainty equivalent at 0− as:
                                    { n            [{                     } 1−γ ]} 1−γ
                                                                                    1
                                     ∑               1− 1    1− 1           1−1/ψ
                             VE =          π (s)    C0 ψ + βC1 ψ (s)                         .                (A.5)
                                     s=1

In the case of late resolution, we first aggregate over uncertain period 1 consumption to compute
   1
    The comparison between early and late resolution of uncertainty here is the same as that in Figure 2 of Kreps
and Porteus [14]. Our top panel corresponds to node d0 (a) and the bottom panel corresponds to node d0 (b) in that
Figure.



                                                         3
                               { [      ]} 1
                                E C11−γ
                                          1−γ
its certainty equivalent:                     , and then aggregate over time to compute V L as:

                                                           { n                         } 1−1/ψ  1−1/ψ
                                                                                                       1

                              1          1
                                       1− ψ          1       ∑            [         ]      1−γ 

                   VL =            C          +β                     π (s) C11−γ (s)                           .   (A.6)
                            1 − ψ1 0              1 − ψ1                                      
                                                             s=1


    The Arrow-Debreu price for one unit of consumption in period one measured in period-0
consumption numeraire can be computed as follows.2 In the case of early resolution, the marginal
rate of substitution between C1 (s) and C0 is:

                                                             {                           } 1/ψ−γ
                                                                     1− 1    1− 1          1−1/ψ
                   ∂V E             ( )− 1                          C0 ψ + βC1 ψ (s)
                  ∂C1 (s)            C1  ψ
                          = π (s) β                                              .                               (A.7)
                   ∂V E              C0                {                  } 1/ψ−γ
                   ∂C0                     ∑n               1
                                                         1− ψ        1
                                                                  1− ψ      1−1/ψ
                                                       C0                        
                                            s=1 π (s)         + βC1    (s)


In the case of late resolution,
                                                                                               1 −γ
                                       (       ) 1                                               ψ

                                         C1 (s) − ψ                         
                      ∂V L
                     ∂C1 (s)                                C1 (s)
                             = π (s) β                [                 ] 1                                .       (A.8)
                      ∂V L
                      ∂C0
                                          C0        
                                                     ∑n π (s) C 1−γ (s) 1−γ 
                                                                             
                                                        s=1     1


   Clearly, the SDF for the early resolution case, (A.7) can be decomposed into the m∗ in equation
                                                                                         ( )− 1
                                                                                                ψ
(10) and an SDF that discounts period 1 cash flow into period 0+ consumption units: β C     1
                                                                                           C0     .
The SDF in (A.8) takes a familiar from as in many consumption-based asset pricing models where
uncertainty is assumed to resolve at the same time of the realization of consumption shocks. In
                  {                      } 1 −γ
                                                     ψ
                                  C1 (s)
general, the term       ∑n                   1              does not integrate to one unless in the special case
                                    1−γ
                       [   s=1 π(s)C1         ]
                                        (s) 1−γ
of unit IES.


B         Examples of Dynamic Preferences and A-SDF

In this section, we show that most of the non-expected utility proposed in the literature can be
represented in the form of (14). We also provide an expression for the implied A-SDF.3


        • The recursive utility of Kreps and Porteus [14] and Epstein and Zin [5]. The recursive
    2
     As in the paper, in the case with announcement, the period-0 consumption numeraire is interpreted as one unit
of period-0 consumption delivered non-contingently at time 0+ .
   3
     Depending on the model, additional conditions may be needed so that the assumptions of Theorem 1 can be
verified. We provide the expressions for A-SDF assuming appropriate conditions on the primitive utility functions
can be imposed to guarantee its existence.



                                                                4
  preference can be generally represented as:
                                {                                        }
                        Ut = u−1 (1 − β) u (Ct ) + βu ◦ h−1 E [h (Ut+1 )] .                (B.1)

  For example, the well-known recursive preference with constant IES and constant risk aversion
                                         1                         1
  is the special case in which u (C) = 1−1/ψ C 1−1/ψ and h (U ) = 1−γ C 1−γ . With a monotonic
  transformation,
                                           V = u (U ) ,                                   (B.2)

  the recursive relationship for V can be written in the form of (14) with the same u function
  in equation (B.1) and the certainty equivalence functional:
                                                (∫                      )
                                                         −1
                                   I (V ) = ϕ        ϕ        (V ) dP       ,


  where ϕ = h ◦ u−1 . the A-SDF can be written as:

                                        m∗ (V ) ∝ ϕ′ (V ) ,                                (B.3)

  where we suppress the normalizing constant, which is chosen so that m∗ (V ) integrates to one.

• The maxmin expected utility of Gilboa and Schmeidler [7]. The dynamic version of this
  preference is studied in Epstein and Schneider [4] and Chen and Epstein [2]. This preference
  can be represented as the special case of (14) where the certainty equivalence functional is of
  the form:                                        ∫
                                     I (V ) = min     mV dP,
                                                m∈M

  where M is a family of probability densities that is assumed to be convex and closed in the
  weak∗ topology. As we show in Section 3.2 of the paper, the A-SDF for this class of preference
  is the Radon-Nikodym derivative of the minimizing probability measure with respect to P .

• The variational preferences of Maccheroni, Marinacci, and Rustichini [17], the dynamic
  version of which is studied in Maccheroni, Marinacci, and Rustichini [18], features a certainty
  equivalence functional of the form:
                                              ∫
                                 I (V ) = min    mV dP + c (m) ,
                                         E[m]=1


  where c (π) is a convex and weak∗ −lower semi-continuous function. Similar to the maxmin
  expected utility, the A-SDF for this class of preference is minimizing probability density.

• The multiplier preferences of Hansen and Sargent [8] and Strzalecki [22] is represented by the
  certainty equivalence functional:
                                             ∫
                               I (V ) = min    mV dP + θR (m) ,
                                        E[m]=1


                                                5
         where R (m) denote the relative entropy of the density m with respect to the reference
         probability measure P , and θ > 0 is a parameter. In this case, the A-SDF is also
         the minimizing probability that can be written as a function of the continuation utility:
         m∗ (V ) ∝ e− θ V .
                      1




       • The second order expected utility of Ergin and Gul [6] can be written as (14) with the following
         choice of I:                                 (∫            )
                                         I (V ) = ϕ−1     ϕ (V ) dP ,

         where ϕ is a concave function. In this case, the A-SDF can be written as a function of
         continuation utility:
                                            m∗ (V ) ∝ ϕ′ (V ) .

       • The smooth ambiguity preference of Klibanoﬀ, Marinacci, and Mukerji [12] and Klibanoﬀ,
         Marinacci, and Mukerji [13] can be represented as:
                                                        (∫              (∫               )         )
                                       I (V ) = ϕ−1                 ϕ            mV dP       dµ (m) ,                           (B.4)
                                                               M             Ω

         where µ is a probability measure on a set of probabilities densities M . The A-SDF can be
         written as :                     ∫       (∫       )
                                   ∗            ′
                                  m (ω) ∝     ϕ      mV dP m (ω) dµ (m) .                    (B.5)
                                                    M

       • The certainty equivalence functional I for the disappointment aversion preference is implicitly
         defined as I [V ] = µ, where µ is the unique solution to the following equation:
                                              ∫                          ∫
                                    ϕ (µ) =       ϕ (V ) dP − θ                   [ϕ (µ) − ϕ (V )] dP,
                                                                          µ≥V

         where ϕ is a concave function. The A-SDF can be written as:
                                                    {              ϕ′ (V )
                                         ∗                 ϕ′ (µ)[1+θP (V ≤µ)]
                                                                                      if V > µ
                                       m (V ) =                 (1−θ)ϕ′ (V )                        ,
                                                           ϕ′ (µ)[1+θP (V ≤µ)]
                                                                                         f V ≤µ

         whenever I [V ] is diﬀerentiable at V .

       • Hayashi and Miao [10] develop a class of generalized recursive smooth ambiguity model that
         takes the following form:4
                      {                                        (∫                    (∫                     )            )}
                                              [            ]            [        ]              (       )
                 −1
           V̄t = u        (1 − β) u (Ct ) + β u ◦ ν   −1
                                                                         ν ◦ ϕ−1             mϕ V̄t+1 dP        dµ (m)        , (B.6)
                                                                   M

         where u, v, and ϕ are all smooth and monotone functions. As in the Klibanoﬀ, Marinacci,
   4
    The model in Hayashi and Miao [10] is more general than (B.6) and may not permit a representation of the form
Vt = u (Ct ) + βI [Vt+1 ]. However, the applied examples of this preference are often special cases of (B.6). See also the
related generalized recursive multiple-priors model of Hayashi [9], which can be obtained as a limiting case of (B.6).


                                                                    6
        and Mukerji [12] model, M is a set of probability densities that represent ambiguous beliefs,
                                                                                           ( )
        and µ is a measure on the set of densities. With a monotonic transformation, Vt = u V̄t , the
        above can be written in the form of (14) with
                                                   (∫                      (∫                       )        )
                                [         −1
                                               ]        [         −1
                                                                       ]         [       ]
                      I (V ) = u ◦ ν                        ν◦ϕ                 m ϕ ◦ u−1 (V ) dP       dµ (m) .
                                                    M

        The A-SDF for this class of preferences can be written as:
                           ∫                       (∫                            )
                  ∗
                                [           ]
                                          −1 ′
                                                         [       ]                        [       ]′
               m (ω) ∝              ν◦ϕ                 m ϕ−1 ◦ u V dP               m (ω) ϕ ◦ u−1 (V (ω)) dµ (m) .
                            M



C       Proofs for Theorem 1 and 2

C.1      Preliminaries

In this section, we provide formal definitions of some relevant concepts and introduce the basic
methodology to prove Theorem 1 and 2. We first state the definition of a non-atomic probability
space, which is an assumption maintained throughout Section 4.

Definition A.1. Non-atomic probability space: A probability space (Ω, F, P ) is said to be non-
atomic (or continuous) if ∀ω ∈ Ω, P (ω) = 0.

    Next, we state the definition of first-order stochastic dominance (FSD) and second-order
stochastic dominance (SSD).

Definition A.2. First-order stochastic dominance: X1 first-order stochastic dominates X2 , or
X1 ≥F SD X2 , if there exists a random variable Y ≥ 0 a.s. such that X1 has the same distribution
as X2 + Y . Strict monotonicity, X1 >F SD X2 holds if P (Y > 0) > 0 in the above definition.

Definition A.3. Second-order stochastic dominance: X1 second order stochastic dominates X2 , or
X1 ≥SSD X2 , if there exists a random variable Y such that E [ Y | X1 ] = 0 and X2 has the same
distribution as X1 + Y . Strict monotonicity, X1 >SSD X2 holds if P (Y ̸= 0) > 0 in the above
definition.5

    FSD and SSD are typically defined as stochastic orders on the space of distributions. Here, it is
more convenient to define FSD and SSD as binary relations on the space of random variables. Our
definitions are equivalent to the standard definitions of FSD and SSD due to the assumption of a
non-atomic probability space (See Muller and Stoyan [20]).
   Our strategy for proving Theorem 1 and 2 consists of two steps. First, we apply the envelope
theorems in Milgrom and Segal [19] to establish the diﬀerentiability of the value functions. Second,
    5
    Our definition of SSD is the same as the standard concept of increasing risk (see Rothschild and Stiglitz [21] and
Werner [25]). However, it is important to note that in our model, the certainty equivalence function I is defined on
the space of continuation utilities rather than consumption.


                                                                   7
we compute the derivatives of I to construct the A-SDF and use derivatives of I to integrate back
to recover the certainty equivalence functional.6
   Most of our analysis below is on the conditional certainty equivalence functional I [ ·| z]. To
save notation, whenever it does not cause confusion, we suppress the dependence of I [ ·| z] on z and
simply write I [·]. We often use the following operation to relate the certainty equivalence functional
I and its derivatives. ∀ X,Y ∈ L2 (Ω, F, P ), we can define g (t) = I [X + t (Y − X)] for t ∈ [0, 1]
and compute I [Y ] − I [X] as

                         I [Y ] − I [X] = g (1) − g (0)
                                          ∫ 1
                                        =     g ′ (t) dt
                                           0
                                          ∫ 1∫
                                        =          DI [X + t (Y − X)] (Y − X) dP dt,                         (C.1)
                                              0       Ω

where DI [X + t (Y − X)] is understood as the representation of the Fréchet derivative of I [·]
evaluated at X + t (Y − X). The Riesz representation theorem implies that DI [X + t (Y − X)] is
an element of L2 (Ω, F, P ), and DI [X + t (Y − X)] applied to (Y − X) can be computed as the
             ∫
dot product, Ω DI [X + t (Y − X)] (Y − X) dP .
    We note that Fréchet Diﬀerentiability with Lipschitz Derivatives guarantees that the function
g (t) is continuously diﬀerentiable. The diﬀerentiability of g is straightforward (see for example,
Luenberger [16]). To see that g ′ (t) is continuous, note that
                                  ∫
           ′         ′
         g (t1 ) − g (t2 ) =           {DI [X + t1 (Y − X)] − DI [X + t2 (Y − X)]} (Y − X) dP
                                   Ω
                              ≤ ∥DI [X + t1 (Y − X)] − DI [X + t2 (Y − X)]∥ · ∥Y − X∥ .

The Lipschitz continuity of DI implies that

                 ∥DI [X + t1 (Y − X)] − DI [X + t2 (Y − X)]∥ ≤ (t1 − t2 ) ∥(Y − X)∥ ,

and the latter vanishes as t2 → t1 . This proves the validity of (C.1).
    For later reference, it is useful to note that we can apply the mean value theorem on g and write
for some t̂ ∈ (0, 1),                      ∫
                                                   [              ]
                          I [Y ] − I [X] =     DI X + t̂ (Y − X) (Y − X) dP.                    (C.2)
                                                  Ω

Much of our analysis below relies on the theory of diﬀerentiability for nonlinear operators defined
on infinite dimensional spaces, for example, in Tapia [24] and Luenberger [16].
  6
    A weaker notion of diﬀerentiability, Gâtteaux diﬀerentiability is enough to guarantee the existence of A-SDF.
However, the converse of Theorem 1 requires a stronger condition for diﬀerentiability, which is what we assume here.




                                                          8
C.2    Existence of A-SDF

In this section, we provide a proof for Theorem 1 and establish the existence of A-SDF.


   Diﬀerentiability of value function We establish the diﬀerentiability of value functions
recursively. In particular, we show that the value functions are elements of D, which is defined as:

Definition A.4. D is the set of diﬀerentiable functions on the real line, denoted by f , that satisfy
the following two properties.


  1. f is Lipschitz continuous and f ′ (x) > 0.

  2. ∀x ∈ R, as h → 0, h1 [f (x + h − a) − f (x − a)] converges uniformly to f ′ (x − a)
     in a.     That is, ∀ε > 0, there exists δ > 0 such that |h| < δ implies that
                                       ′
      h [f (x + h − a) − f (x − a)] − f (x − a) < ε for all a ∈ R.
      1



   We first introduce some notation. For any v ∈ D, we define fv and gv as functions of (W, ξ),
where W is the wealth level, and ξ ∈ RJ+1 is a portfolio strategy, by:
                                    (      ∑J         )
                                                     [ (∑           )]
                                                            J
                   fv (W, ξ) = u W −      ξ + βI v             ξ Rj    ,                        (C.3)
                                       j=0 j                j=0 j
                                [ (    ∑J                )]
                   gv (W, ξ) = I v W +       ξ j (Rj − 1) .                                     (C.4)
                                                  j=0

                                                                           (∑           )
                                                                             J
Because Rj ∈ L2 (Ω, F, P ) and v is Lipschitz continuous, for a fixed ξ, v   j=0 ξ j Rj   and
 (       ∑J           )
v W − j=0 ξ j (Rj − 1) are both square integrable and equations (C.3) and (C.4) are well-
defined.
   We define two operators on D. For any v ∈ D, let T + v and T − v be defined by:
                                   [ + ]
                                    T v (W ) = sup fv (W, ξ) ,                                  (C.5)
                                                        ξ
                                   [ − ]
                                    T v (W ) = sup gv (W, ξ) .                                  (C.6)
                                                        ξ


Clearly, the value functions Vz + (W ) and Vz − (W ) can be constructed recursively as Vz + (W ) =
[           ]                   t     [       ]t                                            t

  T + Vz − (W ), and Vz − (W ) = T − Vz + (W ) (with the understanding that the certainty
        t+1              t                  t
equivalence functionals in the definition of fv (W, ξ) and gv (W, ξ) are appropriately chosen
conditional certainty equivalence functionals). Because we start with the assumption of the existence
of an interior equilibrium, the maximization problems (C.5) and (C.6) are well defined, and the
maximums are achieved.
    Below, we prove that Vz + and Vz − are elements of D in two steps. First, Lemma A.1 below
                             t         t
establishes the equi-diﬀerentiability of the family of functions {fv (W, ξ)}ξ and {gv (W, ξ)}ξ so that


                                                  9
we can apply the envelope theorem in Milgrom and Segal [19]. Second, in Lemma A.2, we apply
the envelope theorem repeatedly to show that the operators T + and T − map D into itself.

Lemma A.1. Suppose u, v ∈ D, as h → 0, both                                    h [fv (W + h, ξ) − fv (W, ξ)]
                                                                               1
                                                                                                                and
h [gv (W + h, ξ) − gv (W, ξ)] converge uniformly for all ξ.
1


   Proof: First,
                                           [ (      ∑J     ) (   ∑J     )]
         1                               1
           [fv (W + h, ξ) − fv (W, ξ)] =    u W +h−     ξ −u W −     ξ
         h                               h           j=0 j        j=0 j


converges uniformly because u ∈ D. Next, we need to show that

                               1                                ∂
                                 [gv (W + h, ξ) − gv (W, ξ)] →    gv (W, ξ)                                    (C.7)
                               h                               ∂W

and the convergence is uniform for all ξ. Note that
                          ∫     [ (    ∑J                       )]    (  ∑J                             )
       ∂                                                            ′
         gv (W, ξ) =          DI v W −              ξ j (Rj − 1) · v W −                    ξ j (Rj − 1) dP
      ∂W                                      j=0                                     j=0


and
                              [ (          ∑J                 )]      [ (       ∑J                )]
gv (W + h, ξ) − gv (W, ξ) = I v W + h +            ξ (Rj − 1) − I v W +                 ξ (Rj − 1)
                                               j=0 j                                 j=0 j
                            ∫
                                  [ ( )]
                          =    DI v̄ t̂ (v̄ (1) − v̄ (0)) dP, f or some t ∈ (0, 1) ,
                                   Ω
                            (            ∑                   )        (      ∑                )
where we denote v̄ (t) = tv W + h − Jj=0 ξ j (Rj − 1) + (1 − t) v W − Jj=0 ξ j (Rj − 1) and
                                                     (      ∑            )
applied equation (C.2). Also, denote v̄ ′ (0) = v ′ W − Jj=0 ξ j (Rj − 1) , then the right hand side
                          ∫
of (C.7) can be written as Ω DI [v̄ (0)] v̄ ′ (0) dP , we have:
               ∫                                      ∫
           1          [ ( )]
                    DI v̄ t̂ (v̄ (1) − v̄ (0)) dP −        DI [v̄ (0)] v̄ ′ (0) dP
           h    Ω                                     Ω
                ∫ [ ( )]                            ∫  [ ( )]
            1
              DI v̄ t̂ (v̄ (1) − v̄ (0)) dP − Ω DI v̄ t̂ v̄ ′ (0) dP
      =     h
            Ω   ∫     [ ( )]                ∫
              + Ω DI v̄ t̂ v̄ ′ (0) dP − Ω DI [v̄ (0)] v̄ ′ (0) dP
        ∫                                                 ∫
               [ ( )] 1                                            [ ( )]
      ≤    DI v̄ t̂                               ′
                          (v̄ (1) − v̄ (0)) − v̄ (0) dP +      DI v̄ t̂ − DI [v̄ (0)] v̄ ′ (0) dP
         Ω              h                                   Ω
            [ ( )] 1                                       [  ( )]
      ≤ DI v̄ t̂        (v̄ (1) − v̄ (0)) − v̄ ′ (0) + DI v̄ t̂ − DI [v̄ (0)] v̄ ′ (0)           (C.8)
                      h

Because v ∈ D, for h small enough, h1 (v̄ (1) − v̄ (0)) − v̄ ′ (0) ≤ ε with probability
one and      1
               (v̄ (1) − v̄ (0)) − v̄ ′ (0) ≤ ε.   Also, because DI is Lipschitz continuous,
     [ ( )] h
 DI v̄ t̂ − DI [v̄ (0)] ≤ K ∥v̄ (1) − v̄ (0)∥ ≤ K 2 h, where the second inequality is due to the
Lipschitz continuity of v. This proves the uniform convergence of (C.8).

Lemma A.2. Suppose u ∈ D, then both T + and T − map D into D.

                                                          10
   Proof: It follows from Lemma A.1 that for any v ∈ D, we can apply Theorem 3 in Milgrom
and Segal [19] and establish that both T + v and T − v are diﬀerentiable, and
                  (   ∑J         )
 d +            ′
   T v (W ) = u W −        ξ (W )
dW                      j=0 j
              ∫     [ (    ∑J                    )]    (  ∑J                 )
 d −                                                 ′
   T v (W ) =     DI v W −        ξ (W ) (Rj − 1) · v W −     ξ (W ) (Rj − 1) dP,
dW                            j=0 j                        j=0 j


where ξ (W ) denotes the utility-maximizing portfolio at W .
   To see that T + v (W ) is Lipschitz continuous, note that

  fv (W1 , ξ (W2 )) − fv (W2 , ξ (W2 )) ≤ T + v (W1 ) − T + v (W2 ) ≤ fv (W1 , ξ (W1 )) − fv (W2 , ξ (W1 )) .
                                               (                )     (                 )               (C.9)
                                                       ∑J                      ∑J
Because ∀ξ, |f (W1 , ξ) − f (W2 , ξ)| = u W1 − j=0 ξ j − u W2 − j=0 ξ j                    ≤ K |W1 − W2 |,
where K is a Lipschitz constant for u, |T v (W1 ) − T v (W2 )| ≤ K |W1 − W2 |. We can prove that
T − v (W ) is Lipschitz continuous in a similar way:

 gv (W1 , ξ (W2 )) − g v (W2 , ξ (W2 )) ≤ T − v (W1 ) − T − v (W2 ) ≤ gv (W1 , ξ (W1 )) − gv (W2 , ξ (W1 )) .
                                                                                                       (C.10)
Note that ∀ξ,
                               [ (     ∑J               )]   [ (    ∑J                 )]
|gv (W1 , ξ) − g v (W2 , ξ)| =I v W1 +      ξ j (Rj − 1) − I v W2 +        ξ j (Rj − 1)
                                        j=0                           j=0
                                 (     ∑J               )   (     ∑J               )
                            ≤ K v W1 +      ξ j (Rj − 1) − v W2 +    ξ j (Rj − 1)
                                                    j=0                              j=0

                            ≤ K |W1 − W2 | ,
                                   2



where the inequalities are due to the Lipschitz continuity of I and v, respectively.
   In addition, equations (C.9) and (C.10) can be used to show that the family of functions
{T + v (W − a)}a and {T − v (W − a)}a are equi-diﬀerentiable. For example, let W1 → W2 ,

                                          1
                                               [fv (W1 , ξ) − fv (W2 , ξ)]
                                       W1 − W2
                                                            1
converges uniformly by Lemma A.1, and by equation (C.9), W1 −W2
                                                                [T + v (W1 ) − T + v (W2 )] must
also converge uniformly.
   Finally, we note that if v ′ (x) > 0 for all x ∈ R, then [T + v] (W ) and [T − v] (W ) must satisfy the
same property by the envelope theorem.


   Proof of Theorem 1 In this section, we establish the existence of SDF as stated in Theorem
1. To save notation, whenever convenient, we denote Rj (z) to be the one-period return of asset
                                                (         )
j that payoﬀ at history z. That is, if z = zt+ = zt− , s+
                                                        t   is a post-announcement history, then


                                                       11
              (    −
                     )                                                         −
                                                                                    (          )
Rj (z) ≡ RA,j s+t zt   is an announcement return, and if z is of the form z = zt+1 = zt+ , s−
                                                                                            t−1 ,
                   (         )
then Rj (z) ≡ RP,j s−      +
                      t+1 zt    is a post-announcement return. We write the portfolio selection
            −
problem at zt as               [     (                            )    ]
                                            ∑J      ( ( +)      )    −
                        max I Vz + W +           ζ j Rj zt − 1      zt .                  (C.11)
                               ζ          t                    j=0
                                                                          ( )
Clearly, no arbitrage implies that the risk-free announcement return R0 zt+ = 1. Because Vz + and
  [     ]                                [     (     ∑        ( ( )        )) − ]            t

I ·| zt− are (Fréchet) diﬀerentiable, I Vz + W + Jj=0 ζ j Rj zt+ − 1        zt is diﬀerentiable in
                                             t
ζ.7 Therefore, the first order condition with respect to ζ j implies that
                           [  [                                ]
                                   ( ′ )] d    ( ′) ( ( +) ) −
                          E DI Vz + W       V + W Rj zt − 1 zt = 0,                                                    (C.12)
                                 t       dW zt
                                    ∑J           (     ( )     )
where we denote W ′ = W +             j=0 ζ̂ j       Rj zt+ − 1 and ζ̂ is the optimal portfolio choice.
    The value function Vz + (W ) in (C.11) is determined by the the agent’s portfolio choice problem
                         t
at zt+ after the announcement s+ t is made:
                      { (    ∑J                          )       [         (∑                       )         ]}
                                                                              J             ( − )
       Vz + (W ) = max u W −                     ξ           + βI Vz −                ξ j Rj zt−1       zt+        .   (C.13)
          t           ξ                       j=0 j                  t+1        j=0


The envelop condition for (C.13) implies
                                            (  ∑J      )
                           d                                           ( )
                                          ′
                             Vz + (W ) = u W −      ξ j = u′ (Ct ) = u′ C̄t ,
                          dW t                  j=0


where the last equality uses the market clearing condition. Because consumption at time t must
equal to total endowment, C̄t , and because C̄t must be zt− measurable, so must dW
                                                                                 d
                                                                                    Vz + (W ).
                                                                                      t
                                   d              ′
                                                    ( )               d              −
   By our results in Section C.2, dW Vz + (W ) = u C̄t > 0. Because dW Vz + (W ) is zt measurable,
                                       t                                   t
(C.12) implies:                 [    [        ]( ( )            ]
                                                            )
                             E DI Vz + (W ) Rj zt+ − 1 zt− = 0.                               (C.14)
                                                     t


As we show in Lemma A.4 in the next section, monotonicity of I guarantees that DI ≥ 0 with
probability one. To derive an expression for A-SDF, we need to assume a slightly stronger condition:

                          DI [X] > 0 with strictly positive probability for all X.8                                    (C.15)

In this case, the A-SDF can be constructed as:
                                                               [   (         )]
                                     (    −
                                            )               DI Vz + Wz − ,s+
                                   m∗ s+
                                       t zt   =           [   [ t(    t    t
                                                                             )]    ],                                  (C.16)
                                                                                 −
                                                         E DI Vz + Wz − ,s+     zt
                                                                     t      t   t

   7
    This is a version of the chain rule. See Proposition 1 in Chapter 7 of Luenberger [16].
   8
    Note that monotonicity with respect to FSD implies that DI [X] ≥ 0 with probability one for all X. If condition
(C.15) does not hold, we must have DI [X] = 0 with probability one. If I is strictly monotone with respect to FSD,
then this cannot happen on an open set in L2 . Therefore, even without assuming (C.15), our result implies that the
A-SDF exists generically.


                                                                12
                                                                           [  (    −
                                                                                     ) −]
where Wz denote the equilibrium wealth of the agent at history z. Because E m∗ s+
                                                                                t zt  zt = 1,
we can write (C.14) as an asset pricing equation with A-SDF:
                                          [  (      )    (      )   ]
                                         E m∗ ·| zt− RA,j ·| zt− zt− = 1.


    Now we constructed the A-SDF as the Fréchet Derivative of the certainty equivalence functional.
             [       ]                            (        )
Because DI Vt+ (W ) is a linear functional on L2 Ω, Ft+ , P , it has a representation as an element
      (         )
in L2 Ω, Ft+ , P by the Riesz representation theorem. To complete the proof of Theorem 1, we only
                      (     −
                              )
need to show that m∗ s(+t zt    can
                                 ) be represented as a measurable function of continuation   utility:
    (    −
           )                                                                               (      −
                                                                                                    )
m∗ st zt = m∗ ◦Vz + Wz − ,s+ for some measurable function m∗ : R → R.9 That is, m∗ s+
      +
                                                                                              t zt
                         t       t   t
depends on s+t only through the continuation utility. Note that our definition of monotonicity with
respect to FSD implies invariance with respect to distribution, that is, I [X] = I [Y ] whenever X
and Y have the same distribution (If X has the same distribution of Y then both X ≤F SD Y and
Y ≥F SD X are true). The following lemma establishes that invariance with respect to ( distribution
                                                                                             )
               ∗
                 ( + −)
implies that m st zt is measurable with respect to the σ-field generated by Vz + Wz − ,s+ .
                                                                                                 t      t   t


Lemma A.3. If I is invariant with respect to distribution, then DI [X] can be represented by a
measurable function of X.
    Proof: Take any X ∈ L2 (Ω, F, P ), let T be a measure-preserving transformation such that the
invariant σ−field of T diﬀer from the σ−field generated by X (which we denote as σ (X)) only by
measure zero sets (The assumption of a non-atomic probability space guarantees the existence of
such measure-preserving transformations. See exercise 17.43 in Kechris [11]). Let DI [X] be the
L2 (Ω, F, P ) representation of the Fréchet derivative of the certainty equivalence functional I at X.
Below, we first show that DI [X] ◦ T must also be a Fréchet derivative of I at X. Because the
Fréchet derivative is unique, we must have DI [X] = DI [X] ◦ T with probability one; therefore,
DI [X] must be measurable with respect to the invariant σ-field of T and therefore, also measurable
with respect to σ (X).
    Because I [·] is Fréchet diﬀerentiable, to show DI [X] ◦ T is the Fréchet derivative of I at X, it
is enough to verify that DI [X] ◦ T is a Gâteaux derivative, that is,
                                                               ∫
                                 1
                             lim [V (X + αY ) − V (X)] =           (DI [X] ◦ T ) · Y dP                         (C.17)
                             α→0 α


for all Y ∈ L2 (Ω, F, P ).
   Because T is measure preserving and X is measurable with respect to the invariance σ−field of T ,
                                                                                      (              )
X = X ◦ T with probability one. Therefore, V (X + αY ) = V (X ◦ T + αY ) = V X + αY ◦ T −1 ,
where the second equality is due to the fact that T −1 is measure preserving, and [X ◦ T + αY ]◦T −1 =
   9
     In general, m∗ may depend on zt− . Here, with a slight abuse of notation, we denote m∗ both as the A-SDF, which
is an element of L2 , and as a measurable function R → R.




                                                        13
X + αY ◦ T −1 has the same distribution with X ◦ T + αY . As a result,

                  1                          1[ (                 )    ]
                    [V (X + αY ) − V (X)] =    V X + αY ◦ T −1 − V (X)
                  α                         ∫α
                                          =    DI [X] × Y ◦ T −1 dP,
                                            ∫
                                          =    DI [X] ◦ T · Y dP,

                                           [                ]
where the last equality uses the fact that DI [X] · Y ◦ T −1 ◦ T = DI [X] ◦ T · Y have the same
distribution with DI [X] × Y ◦ T −1 . This proves (C.17).


C.3       Generalized Risk Sensitivity and the Announcement Premium

We prove Theorem 2 in this section. Part 1 is straightforward given our results in the last section.
                                                       (    −
                                                              )
From equation (C.16), if I is expected utility, then m∗ s+
                                                         t zt   must be a constant. Conversely, if
  ∗
    ( + −)
m st zt is a constant, then I is linear and must have an expected utility representation.
   We prove
   (      )    part 2) of theorem 2 in three steps. First, we use Lemma A.4 to establish that
m∗   Vz + is non-negative if and only if I is monotone with respect to FSD. Second, we prove
        t
the equivalence between (a) and (b). ( Lemma
                                         )    A.5 and A.6 jointly establish that generalized risk
                                   ∗
sensitivity of I is equivalent to m Vz + being a non-increasing function of Vz + . Finally, we use
                                       t                                      t
Lemma A.7 to establish the equivalence between (b) and (c).

Lemma A.4. I is monotone with respect FSD if and only if DI [X] ≥ 0 a.s.
   Proof: Suppose DI [X] ≥ 0 a.s. for all X ∈ L2 (Ω, F, P ). Take any Y such that Y ≥ 0 a.s.,
we have:                                 ∫ ∫       1
                       I [X + Y ] − I [X] =                 DI [X + tY ] Y dP dt ≥ 0.
                                               0       Ω

Conversely, suppose I is monotone with respect to FSD, we can prove DI [X] ≥ 0 a.s. by
contradiction. Suppose the latter is not true and there exist an A ∈ F with P (A) > 0 and
DI [X] < 0 on A. Because DI is continuous, we can assume that DI [X + tχA ] < 0 on A for
all t ∈ (0, ε) for ε small enough, where χA is the indicator function of A. Therefore,
                                              ∫ 1∫
                      I [X + χA ] − I [X] =                DI [X + tχA ] χA dP dt < 0,
                                               0       Ω

contradicting monotonicity with respect to FSD.
                                                                          (    )
    Next, we show that I is monotone with respect to SSD if and only if m∗ Vz + is non-increasing
                                                                             t
in Vz + . We first prove the following lemma.
      t

Lemma A.5. I is monotone with respect SSD if and only if ∀X ∈ L2 (Ω, F, P ), for any σ−field
G ⊆ F,                    ∫
                                   DI [X] · (X − E [ X| G]) dP ≤ 0.                          (C.18)


                                                       14
    Proof: Suppose condition (C.18) is true, by the definition of SSD, for any X and Y such that
E [ Y | X] = 0, we need to prove

                                      ∀λ ∈ (0, 1) ,     I (X) ≥ I (X + Y ) .

Using (C.1),
                                              ∫ 1∫
                I (X + Y ) ≥ I (X) =       DI [X + tY ] Y dP dt
                                      0  Ω
                             ∫ 1 ∫
                                 1
                           =         DI [X + tY ] {tY + X − X − tE [ Y | X]} dP dt
                              0 t Ω
                             ∫ 1 ∫
                                 1
                           =         DI [X + tY ] {[X + tY ] − E [ X + tY | X]} dP dt
                              0 t Ω
                           ≤ 0,

where the last inequality uses (C.18).
    Conversely, assuming I is increasing in SSD, we prove (C.18) by contradiction. if (C.18) is not
true, then by the continuity of DI [X], for some ε > 0, ∀t ∈ (0, ε),
                           ∫
                               DI [(1 − t) X + tE [ X| G]] · (X − E [ X| G]) dP > 0.

Therefore,
                                             ∫ ε∫
  I [(1 − ε) X + εE [ X| G]] − I [X] =                DI [(1 − t) X + tE [ X| G]] {E [ X| G] − X} dP dt < 0.
                                               0

However, (1 − ε) X + εE [ X| G] ≥SSD X, a contradiction.10

    Due to Lemma A.3, DI [X] can be represented by a measurable function of X, we denote
DI [X] = η (X). To establish(the )equivalence between monotonicity with respect to SSD and the
negative monotonicity of m∗ Vz + , we only need to prove that condition (C.18) is equivalent to
                                  t
η (·) being a non-increasing function, which is Lemma A.6 below.

Lemma A.6. Condition (C.18) is equivalent to η (X) being a non-increasing function of X.
       Proof: First, we assume η (X) is non-increasing. To prove (C.18), note that E [ X| G] is
  10
     An easy way to prove the statement, (1 − ε) X + εE [ X| G] ≥SSD X is to observe that an equivalent definition of
SSD is X1 ≥SSD X2 if E [ϕ (X1 )] ≥ E [ϕ (X2 )] for all concave functions ϕ (see Rothschild and Stiglitz [21] and Werner
[25]). If E [ Z| V1 ] = 0, then for any concave function ϕ, ϕ (V1 + λZ1 ) ≥ λϕ (V1 + Z) + (1 − λ) ϕ (V1 ). Therefore,
E [ϕ (V1 + λZ1 )] ≥ λE [ϕ (V1 + Z)] + (1 − λ) E [ϕ (V1 )] ≥ E [ϕ (V1 + Z)], where the last inequality is true because
E [ϕ (V1 )] ≥ E [ϕ (V1 + Z1 )].




                                                          15
measurable with respect to σ (X), and we can use the law of iterated expectation to write:
                 ∫
                     DI [X] · (X − E [ X| G]) dP        = E [η (X) · (X − E [ X| G])]
                                                        ≤ E [η (E [ X| G]) · (X − E [ X| G])]
                                                        = 0,

where the inequality follows from the fact that η (X) ≤ η (E [ X| G]) when X ≥ E [ X| G] and
η (X) ≥ η (E [ X| G]) when X ≤ E [ X| G].
    Second, to prove the converse of the above statement by contradiction, we assume (C.18) is true,
but there exist x1 < x2 , both occur with positive probability such that η (x1 ) < η (x2 ). Under this
assumption, we construct a random variable Y :
                                           {
                                               0,       if X = x1 or x2
                                     Y =                                ,
                                               X,          otherwise

and denote P1 = P (X = x1 ), P2 = P (X = x2 ). Note that
                         ∫
                             DI [X] · (X − E [ X| Y ]) dP
                         ∫
                     =    η (X) · (X − E [ X| Y ]) dP
                                 [                   ]             [                   ]
                                       P1 x1 + P2 x2                     P1 x1 + P2 x2
                     = P1 η (x1 ) x1 −                 + P2 η (x2 ) x2 −
                                         P1 + P2                           P1 + P2
                     > 0

because η (x1 ) < η (x2 ), a contradiction.

   The following lemma establishes the equivalence between (b) and (c).
                         (   )
Lemma A.7. That m∗ Vz + is a non-increasing function of Vz + is equivalent to (c).
                           t                                  t
                    (   )
   Proof: If m∗ Vz + is a non-decreasing function, then for any payoﬀ f that is co-monotone
                      t
with Vz + , we have
        t

                  [ (     ) (    )]  [ (     )] [ (   )]  [ (    )]
                 E m∗ Vz + f Vz + ≤ E m∗ Vz + E f Vz + = E f Vz + ,
                             t        t                       t          t                 t

           (    )     (    )
because m∗t Vz + and f Vz + are negatively correlated.11
                 t               t

   We prove that (c) implies (b) by contradiction. Suppose that the announcement premium is
non-negative for all payoﬀs that are co-monotone with Vz + , but m∗ (v1 ) < m∗ (v2 ) for some v1 < v2 ,
                                                                  t

                                                    ∗
                                                     (   )
   Note that the same argument implies that if m Vt+ is a non-decreasing( function,
  11
                                                                                     )    then the [announcement
                                                                                                             ]
premium must be non-negative for the following more general class of payoﬀs: f s| zt− + ε, where E ε| zt− , s = 0.




                                                         16
both of which occur with positive probability. Consider the following payoﬀ f (·):
                                                  {
                                                      1 v = v2
                                        f (v) =                 .
                                                      0 v ̸= v2
             (     )                               [ (      ) (     )]    [ (    )]
Note that f Vz + is co-monotone with Vz + and yet E m∗t Vz + f Vz +    > E f Vz + ,
                 t                        (t )            t      t             t

contradicting a non-negative premium for f Vz + .
                                                  t




D     Generalized Risk-Sensitive Preferences

D.1    Generalized risk sensitivity and uncertainty aversion

In this section, we provide proofs for results for the relationship between generalized risk sensitivity
and uncertainty aversion discussed in Section 4.3 of the paper.


    • Quasiconcavity implies generalized risk sensitivity.
      The following lemma formalizes the above statement.

      Lemma A.8. Suppose I : L2 (Ω, F, P ) → R is continuous and invariant with respect to
      distribution, then quasiconcavity implies generalized risk sensitivity.

      Proof. Suppose I is continuous, invariant with respect to distribution, and quasiconcave. Let
      X1 ≥SSD X2 , we need to show that I [X1 ] ≥ I [X2 ]. By the definition of second order
      stochastic dominance, there exist a random variable Y such that E [ Y | X1 ] = 0 and X2
      has the same distribution as X1 + Y . Because I is invariant with respect to distribution,
      I [X1 + Y ] = I [X2 ]. Let T : Ω → Ω be any measure preserving transformation such that the
      invariant σ−field of T diﬀers from the σ−field generated by X only by sets of measure zero
      (see exercise 17.43 in Kechris [11]), then quasiconcavity implies that
                  [                          ]
                  1            1
                I   (X1 + Y ) + (X1 + Y ) ◦ T ≥ min {I [X1 + Y ] , I [(X1 + Y ) ◦ T ]} .
                  2            2

      Note that because T is measure preserving and I is distribution invariant, we have
                                                      [                                ]
      I [X1 + Y ] = I [(X1 + Y ) ◦ T ] . Therefore, I[ 12 (X1 + Y ) + 12 (X1 + ]Y ) ◦ T ≥ I [X1 + Y ]. It
                                                         ∑ −1
      is therefore straightforward to show that I N1 N      j=0 (X1 + Y ) ◦ T
                                                                              j ≥ I [X + Y ] for all N
                                                                                         1
                                  ∑  N −1
      by induction. Note that N j=0 (X1 + Y ) ◦ T → E [ X1 + Y | X1 ] = X1 by Birkhoﬀ’s ergodic
                                1                      j

      theorem (note that the invariance σ−field of T is σ (X) by construction). Continuity of I
      then implies I [X1 ] ≥ I [X1 + Y ] = I [X2 ], that is, I satisfies generalized risk sensitivity.

    • Qusiconcavity is not necessary for generalized risk sensitivity.



                                                      17
It is clear from Lemma A.8 that under continuity, the following condition is suﬃcient for
generalized risk sensitivity:

 I [λX + (1 − λ) Y ] ≥ I [X] f or all λ ∈ [0, 1] if X and Y have the same distribution.
                                                                                    (D.1)
Clearly, this condition is weaker than quasiconcavity.
Here, we provide a counterexample of I that satisfies generalized risk sensitivity but is not
quasiconcave. We continue to use the two-period example in Section 3, where we assume
π (H) = π (L) = 21 . Given there are two states, random variables can be represented as
vectors. We denote X = {(xH , xL ) : 0 ≤ xH , xL ≤ B} to be the set of random variables
bounded by B. Let I be the certainty equivalence functional defined on X such that
                                          {                 }
                                     −1
               ∀X ∈ X, I [X] = ϕ              min E [mϕ (X)] , with ϕ (x) = ex ,          (D.2)
                                              m∈M

             {                             {       }     }
where M =     (mH , mL ) : mH + mL = 1, max m H mL
                                               ,
                                             mL mH   ≤ η   is a collection of density of
probability measures and the parameter η ≥ eB . Note that I defined in (D.2) is not concave
because ϕ (x) is a strictly convex function. Below we show that I satisfies generalized risk
sensitivity, but is not quasiconcavity.
Using (D.1), to establish generalized risk sensitivity, we need to show that for any X, Y ∈ X
such that X and X have the same distribution, I [λX + (1 − λ) Y ] ≥ I [X]. Without loss of
generality, we assume X = [xH , xL ] with xH > xL . Because Y has the same distribution with
X, Y = [xL , xH ]. We first show that for all λ ≥ 21 ,

                                  I [λX + (1 − λ) Y ] ≥ I [X] .
                                                                           [1   ]
Because ϕ is strictly increasing, it is enough to prove that for all λ ∈    2, 1    ,

                                  d
                                    ϕ (I [λX + (1 − λ) Y ]) ≤ 0.                          (D.3)
                                 dλ

Because xH > xL , for all λ ≥ 21 , λxH + (1 − λ) xL ≥ λxL + (1 − λ) xH and

                               1                           1
      ϕ (I [λX + (1 − λ) Y ]) = m∗H ϕ (λxH + (1 − λ) xL ) + m∗L ϕ (λxL + (1 − λ) xH ) ,
                               2                           2

where mH + mL = 1 and m    1
                      mL = η . Therefore,
                       H




 d                              1[ ∗ ′                                                  ]
   ϕ (I [λX + (1 − λ) Y ]) =       mH ϕ (λxH + (1 − λ) xL ) − m∗L ϕ′ (λxL + (1 − λ) xH ) (xH − xL )
dλ                              2
                                1           {                                     }
                            =     (xH − xL ) m∗H eλxH +(1−λ)xL − m∗L eλxL +(1−λ)xH .
                                2




                                               18
  Note that
                          m∗H eλxH +(1−λ)xL    1                  1
                            ∗  λx   +(1−λ)x
                                              = e(2λ−1)(xH −xL ) ≤ eB ≤ 1.
                          mL e    L         H  η                  η
                                                                                      [     ]
  This proves (D.3). Similarly, one can prove I [λX + (1 − λ) Y ] ≥ I [Y ] for all λ ∈ 0, 12 . This
  established generalized risk sensitivity.
                                                                                        η+e
  To see I is not quasiconcave, consider X1 = [1, 0], and X2 = [x, x], where x = ln η+1     . One
                                          [1          ]
  can verify that I [X1 ] = I [X2 ], but I 2 X1 + 2 X2 < I [X1 ], contradicting quasiconcavity.
                                                  1


• For second-order expected utility, the concavity of ϕ is equivalent to generalized risk sensitivity.

  Proof. Certainty equivalence functionals of the form I [V ] = ϕ−1 (E [ϕ (V )]), where ϕ is strictly
  increasing is called second-order expected utility in Ergin and Gul [6]. For this class of
  preferences, generalized risk sensitivity is equivalent to quasiconcavity, which is also equivalent
  to the concavity of ϕ. To see this, suppose ϕ is concave, it is straightforward to show that I [·]
  is quasiconcave and satisfies generalized risk sensitivity by Lemma A.8. Conversely, suppose
  I [·] satisfies generalized risk sensitivity then E [ϕ (X)] ≥ E [ϕ (Y )] whenever X ≥SSD Y . By
  remark B on page 240 of Rothschild and Stiglitz [21], ϕ is concave.

• Within the class of smooth ambiguity-averse preferences, uncertainty aversion is equivalent to
  generalized risk sensitivity.

  Proof. Using the results in Klibanoﬀ, Marinacci, and Mukerji [12, 13], it straightforward to
  show that for the class of smooth ambiguity preferences, concavity of ϕ is equivalent to the
  quasiconcavity of I. As a result, quasiconcavity implies generalized risk sensitivity by Lemma
  A.8. The nontrivial part of the above claim is that generalized risk sensitivity implies the
  concavity of ϕ. To see this is true, note that invariance with respect to distribution implies
  that the probability measure µ (x) must satisfy the following property: for all A ∈ F ,
                                      ∫ ∫
                                                dPx dµ (x) = P (A) .
                                            A

  Clearly, generalized risk sensitivity implies that I [E [V ]] ≥ I [V ], for all V ∈ L2 (Ω, F, P ).
  That is,                        ∫
                                     ϕ (E x [V ]) dµ (x) ≤ ϕ (E [V ]) .
                                                                             ∫
  The fact that the above inequality has to hold for all V and E [V ] =          E x [V ] dµ (x) implies
  that ϕ must be concave.




                                                  19
D.2    Generalized risk sensitivity and preference for early resolution of
       uncertainty

Below, we provide detailed examples and proofs for the discussions on the relationship between
preference for early resolution of uncertainty and generalized risk sensitivity in Section 4.3.


   • An example that satisfies generalized risk sensitivity but strictly prefers late resolution of
     uncertainty.

      Example A.1. Consider the following utility function in the two period example:
                                                                           ( √ )2
                           u (C) = C − b,       where b = 2;        I (X) = E X .

      It straight forward to check that I is quasiconcave therefore satisfy generalized risk sensitivity.
      Below we verify that this utility function prefers late resolution of uncertainty when the
      following consumption plan is presented: C0 = 1, CH = 3.21, and CL = 3, where the
      distribution of consumption is given by π (H) = π (L) = 21 .
      The utility with early resolution of uncertainty is given by:

                                            V E = I [u (C0 ) + u (C1 )] .

      It is straightforward to show that:

                               u (C0 ) + u (CH ) = 0.21;      u (C0 ) + u (CL ) = 0

      Therefore,
                                      [     √            √ ]2
                                 V E = 0.5 × 0.21 + 0.5 × 0 = 0.0525

      The utility for late resolution of uncertainty is given by:

                                     V L = u (C0 ) + I [u (C1 )] = 0.1025.


   • An example of I that prefers early resolution of uncertainty but is strictly decreasing in second
     order stochastic dominance.

      Example A.2. Consider the following preference:
                                                                    √
                      u (C) = C − b with b = 2,           I (X) =    E [X 2 ], and β = 1.

      Because X 2 is a strictly convex function, the certainty equivalence functional I is strictly
      decreasing in second-order stochastic dominance. To see that the agent prefers early
      resolution of uncertainty, we consider the same numerical example as in Example A.1. It



                                                     20
      is straightforward to verify that the utility for early resolution of uncertainty is

                                     V E = I [u (C0 ) + u (C1 )] = 0.1485,

      and the utility for later resolution is:

                                       V L = u (C0 ) + I [u (C1 )] = 0.11.


    • Generalized risk sensitivity and indiﬀerence toward the timing of resolution of uncertainty
      implies representation (24).

      Proof. By Lemma 1 and the proof of Theorem 1 in Strzalecki [23], indiﬀerence between timing
      of resolution of uncertainty implies that I satisfies that for all X ∈ L2 (Ω, F, P ), all a ≥ 0,
      I [a + X] = a + I [X]. Take derivatives with respect to a and evaluate at a = 0, we have:
                                                 ∫
                                                     DI [X] dP = 1.                              (D.4)

      Note that because I is normalized, I [0] = 0. Therefore, ∀X ∈ X ∈ L2 (Ω, F, P ),

                                      I [X] = I [X] − I [0]
                                              ∫ 1∫
                                            =       DI [tX] XdP dt
                                               0
                                              ∫ ∫ 1
                                            =       DI [tX] dtXdP.
                                                            0

                  ∫ ∫1
      Note that      0 DI [tX] dtdP = 1 is a density, because of (D.4). In addition, generalized risk
      sensitivity implies that for each t,
                            [                     ( )] [          ( )]
                             DI [tX] (ω) − DI [tX] ω ′   X (ω) − X ω ′ ≤ 0.                      (D.5)
                  ∫1
      Therefore, 0 DI [tX] dt must satisfy (D.5) as well. By the result of Carlier and Dana [1],
      ∫ ∫1
         0 DI [tX] dtXdP can be represented by minimization with respect to the core of a convex
      distortion of P .


E     Details of the Continuous-time model

E.1    Asset Pricing in the Learning Model

    Value function of the representative agent Because announcements fully reveal the value
               +
of xt at nT , qnT = 0. We start from q0 = 0. In the interior of (0, T ), the standard optimal filtering
implies that the posterior mean and variance of xt are given by equations (30) and (31). Here qt


                                                       21
has a closed form solution:                            (           )
                                                   σ 2x 1 − e−2ât
                                       q (t) =                          ,                    (E.1)
                                               (â − a) e−2ât + a + â
             √
where â =    a2 + (σ x /σ)2 . In general, we can write qt = q (t mod T ) for all t.
    Using the results from Duﬃe and Epstein [3], the representative consumer’s preference is
specified by a pair of aggregators (f, A) such that the utility of the representative agent is the
solution to the following stochastic diﬀerential equation (SDU):

                                                  1
                          dV̄t = [−f (Ct , V̄t ) − A(Vt )||σ V (t)||2 ]dt + σ V (t)dBt ,
                                                  2

for some square-integrable process σ V (t). We adopt the convenient normalization A(v) = 0 (Duﬃe
and Epstein [3]), and denote f¯ the normalized aggregator. Under this normalization, f¯(C, V ) is:
                                          {                       [          ]}
                            f¯(C, V̄ ) = ρ (1 − γ) V̄ ln C − V̄ ln (1 − γ) V̄ .

Due to homogeneity, the value function is of the form

                                                           1
                                    V̄ (x̂t , t, Ct ) =       H (x̂t , t) Ct1−γ ,            (E.2)
                                                          1−γ

where H (x̂t , t) satisfies the following Hamilton–Jacobi–Bellman (HJB) equation:
                                                 (          )
                     ρ                                 1 2                1
                  −      ln H (x̂, t) H (x, t) + x̂ − γσ H (x̂, t) +         Ht (x̂t , t)
                    1−γ                                2               1−γ
                      [                        ]
                         1                                  1 1             q2
                    +        ax (x̄ − x̂) + qt Hx (x̂, t) +      Hxx (x̂, t) t2 = 0,         (E.3)
                        1−γ                                 21−γ            σ

with the boundary condition that for all n = 1, 2 · · ·
                                (         )   [ ( +        ) − − ]
                               H x̂−
                                   nT , nT = E H x̂nT , nT  x̂nT , qnT .                     (E.4)
                                              [           ]
                                         1
A monotonic transformation of V̄ , Vt = 1−γ ln (1 − γ) V̄t has the representation of (32).
   The solution to the partial diﬀerential equation (PDE) (E.3) together with the boundary
condition (E.4) is separable and given by:
                                                                1−γ
                                                                      x̂+h(t)
                                            H (x̂, t) = e ax +ρ                 ,

where h (t) satisfy the following ODE:

                                         −ρh (t) + h′ (t) + f (t) = 0,                       (E.5)




                                                           22
where f (t) is defined as:

                      (1 − γ)2         1 (1 − γ)2 1 2         1                      1−γ
              f (t) =          q (t) +                 q (t) − γ (1 − γ) σ 2 + ax x̄        .
                       ax + ρ          2 (ax + ρ)2 σ 2        2                      ax + ρ

The general solution to (E.5) is of the form on (0, T ):
                                                                ∫ t
                                      h (t) = h (0) eρt − eρt         e−ρs f (s) ds.
                                                                 0

We focus on the steady state in which h (t) = h (t mod T ) and use the convention h (0) = h (0+ )
and h (T ) = h (T − ). Under these notations, the boundary condition (E.4) implies h (T ) =
          (       )2
h (0) + 21 a1−γ
             x +ρ
                     q (T − ).


     Asset prices In the interior of (nT, (n + 1) T ), the law of motion of the state price density,
π t satisfies the stochastic diﬀerential equation of the form:
                                                [                                ]
                                      dπ t = π t −r (x̂t , t) dt − σ π (t) dB̃C,t ,

where
                                                                        1−γ
                                        r (x̂, t) = β + x̂ − γσ 2 +            qt
                                                                        ax + ρ
is the risk-free interest rate, and
                                                                γ − 1 qt
                                               σ π (t) = γσ +
                                                                ax + ρ σ
is the market price of the Brownian motion risk.
    We denote p (x̂t , t) as the price-to-dividend ratio. For t ∈ (nT, (n + 1) T ), the price of the claim
to the dividend process can then be calculated as:
                                [∫                                                               ]
                                     (n+1)T
                                              πs         π (n+1)T ( −                    )
          p (x̂t , t) Dt = Et                    Ds ds +         p x̂(n+1)T , (n + 1) T − D(n+1)T .
                                 t            πt             πt

The above present value relationship implies that

                              1
                 π t Dt + lim   {Et [π t+∆ p (x̂t+∆ , t + ∆) Dt+∆ ] − π t p (x̂t , t) Dt } = 0.       (E.6)
                          ∆→0 ∆

Equation (E.6) can be used to show that the price-to-dividend ration function must satisfy the
following PDE:

                                                                            1           q 2 (t)
               1 − p (x̂, t) ϖ (x̂, t) + pt (x̂, t) − px (x̂, t) ν (x̂, t) + pxx (x̂, t) 2 = 0,       (E.7)
                                                                            2             σ




                                                           23
where the functions ϖ (x̂, t) and ν (x̂, t) are defined by:
                                                                   [                    ]
                                                                           1−γ
                   ϖ (x̂, t) = ρ − µ + ϕx̄ + (1 − ϕ) x̂ + (ϕ − 1) γσ + 2
                                                                                  q (t)
                                                                           ax + ρ
                                                                     (     )
                                                              1 − γ q (t) 2
                   ν (x̂, t) = ax (x̂ − x̄) + (γ − ϕ) q (t) +                 .
                                                              ax + ρ     σ

Alos, equation (E.6) can be used to derive the following boundary condition for p (x̂, t):
                                            [ 1−γ + (              )         ]
                                                     x̂     +    + x̂− , q −
                                 ( − − ) E e ax +ρ T p x̂T , T         T T
                                p x̂T , T =               (     )2             .                                      (E.8)
                                                1−γ − 1     1−γ      −  +
                                                    x̂ + 2 a +ρ [qT −qT
                                               ax +ρ T                    ]
                                             e              x



Again, we focus on the steady-state and denote p (x̂, 0) = p (x̂, nT + ), and p (x̂, T ) = p (x̂, nT − ).
Under this condition PDE (E.7) together with the boundary condition can be used to determined
the price-to-dividend ratio function.
   We define µR,t to the instantaneous risk premium, that is,

                                                  1
                               µR,t dt =                  {Dt dt + Et d [p (x̂t , t) Dt ]} .                          (E.9)
                                           p (x̂t , t) Dt

In the interior of (nT, (n + 1) T ), the instantaneous risk premium, µR,t − r (x̂, t) can be computed
as                                                     [                          ]
                          [                ]             d [p (x̂t , t) Dt ] dπ t
                           µR,t − r (x̂, t) dt = −Covt                      ,       .
                                                           p (x̂t , t) Dt     πt
We have:                                     [                        ][                         ]
                                                γ − 1 q (t)                     px (x̂, t) q (t)
                        µR,t − r (x̂, t) = γσ +                            ϕσ +                    .                 (E.10)
                                                ax + ρ σ                        p (x̂, t) σ

   To gain a better understanding on how the risk premium and the announcement premium
depend on the parameters, let ϱ (x̂, t) = ln p (x̂, t), then equation (E.7) can be written as:

                                                                    1[                         ] q 2 (t)
      e−ϱ(x̂,t) − ϖ (x̂, t) + ϱt (x̂, t) − ϱx (x̂, t) ν (x̂, t) +     ϱxx (x̂, t) + ϱ2x (x̂, t)          = 0.        (E.11)
                                                                    2                              σ2

Note that x̂t is itself an Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process with steady state x̄. Using a log-linear
approximation around x̂ = x̄, we can replace the term e−ϱ(x̂,t) with e−ϱ(x̂,t) ≈ e−ϱ̄ − e−ϱ̄ [ϱ (x̂, t) − ϱ̄],
where we denote ϱ̄ ≡ ϱ (x̄, t), and write

                                                                           1[                           ] q 2 (t)
 e−ϱ̄ [1 + ϱ̄ − ϱ (x̂, t)]−ϖ (x̂, t)+ϱt (x̂, t)−ϱx (x̂, t) ν (x̂, t)+         ϱxx (x̂, t) + ϱ2x (x̂, t)           = 0. (E.12)
                                                                           2                                σ2

We conjecture that ϱ (x̂, t) = Ax̂ + B (t), and equation (E.12) can be used to solve for A and B (t)
by the method of undetermined coeﬃcients to get A = axϕ−1  +e−ϱ̄
                                                                 .
   Using the log-linearization result to evaluate equation (E.10) at x̂ = x̄, we obtain (35). In
                 (       )       +
                        + ≈ eAx̂T +B (T + ) , we can compute the expectation in (E.8) explicitly and
addition, using p x̂+
                    T,T



                                                            24
obtain (36).


   Numerical Solutions To solve the PDE (E.7) with the boundary condition (E.8), we consider
the following auxiliary problem:
                                   [∫ T     ∫s                   ∫T
                                                                                          ]
                  p (xt , t) = E          e− t ϖ(xu ,u)du ds + e− t ϖ(xu ,u)du p (xT , T ) ,   (E.13)
                                     t

where the state variable xt follows the law of motion;

                                                                 q (t)
                                         dxt = −ν (x̂, t) dt +         dBt .                   (E.14)
                                                                   σ

Note that the solution to (E.13) and (E.8) satisfies the same PDE. Given an initial guess of the
pre-announcement price-to-dividend ratio, p− (xτ , τ ), we can solve (E.13) by the Markov chain
approximation method (Kushner and Dupuis [15]):

  1. We first start with an initial guess of a pre-announcement price-to-dividend ratio function,
     p (xT , T ).

  2. We construct a locally consistent Markov chain approximation of of the diﬀusion process
                                                                      ( )2
     (E.14) as follows. We choose a small dx, let Q = |ν (x̂, t)| dx + q(t)
                                                                        σ   , and define the time
                        2
     increment ∆ = dx
                    Q be a function of dx. Define the following Markov chain on the space of x:

                                                      [                   (    ) ]
                                                    1             +     1 q (t) 2
                            Pr (x + dx |x ) =           −ν (x̂, t) dx +            ,
                                                    Q                   2   σ
                                                      [                   (    ) ]
                                                    1             −     1 q (t) 2
                            Pr (x − dx |x ) =           −ν (x̂, t) dx +            .
                                                    Q                   2   σ

     One can verify that as dx → 0, the above Markov chain converges to the diﬀusion process
     (E.14) (In the language of Kushner and Dupuis [15], this is a Markov chain that is locally
     consistent with the diﬀusion process (E.14)).

  3. With the initial guess of p (xT , T ), for t = T − ∆, T − 2∆, etc, we use the Markov chain
     approximation to compute the discounted problem in (E.13) recursively:

                                 p (xt , t) = ∆ + e−ϖ(x,t)∆ E [p (xt+∆ , t + ∆)] ,

     until we obtain p (x, 0).

  4. Compute an updated pre-announcement price-to-dividend ratio function, p (xT , T ) using
     (E.8):                                [ 1−γ + (
                                                     x̂           ) − −]
                                               ax +ρ T p x̂+ , 0
                           (         )   E   e              T         x̂T , qT
                         p x̂−
                             T , T −
                                       =                 (      ) 2            .
                                              1−γ − 1                 −
                                                   x̂ + 2 a1−γ
                                             ax +ρ T                [qT −qT+
                                                                             ]
                                           e               x +ρ



                                                       25
      Go back to step 1 and iterate until the function p (xT , T ) converges.


   Our numerical example is based on the following choice of parameter values:


   Choice of parameter values The numerical example we presented in the paper uses
parameter values in the standard long-run risk model:

                       ρ      γ    ψ   x̄       ax       σθ       σ     h0    ϕ   σ 2S
                       0.01   10   2   1.8%     0.10     0.026%   3%    5     3   0

All parameters are annual. We assume that announcements are made at the monthly frequency,
             1
that is, T = 12 .


   Pre-announcement drift The density of communication in the top panel of Figure 4 is
generated from a Beta distribution with parameter α = 2, δ = 3 on [−6, 0] hours before
announcement. The density of the Beta distribution is

                       f ( y| α, δ) = B [σ, δ]−1 y α−1 (1 − y)δ−1 , f or y ∈ (0, 1) ,

where B [σ, δ] is the Beta function. In our example, the density of the occurrence of a communication
                                     (          )
h hours before announcement is f 1 − h6 α, δ .
    During a small interval dt, the expected return of the dividend claim is µR,t dt if the
                                                                            − −
                                                           E [ p(x̂+   +
                                                                   T ,T )|x̂T ,qT ]
announcement does not occur. The expected return is                   − −
                                                                 p(x̂T ,T )
                                                                                    if the announcement
return occurs during dt. Given that the probability of an announcement during hour (k − h, k)
   ∫k    (          )
is k−h f 1 − 6t α, δ dt, the expected return of the dividend claim during hour (k − h, k) can be
written as
                             [ (           (         ) )                        ]                  
      ∫ k  (             ) E p x̂+ t , T + t + x̂− t , q − t                                      
                                                                                                    
                    t              T + 2880
                                          (
                                                  2880       T + 2880 T + 2880
                                                                   )                                    
   E        f 1 − α, δ                             (          )−                   +  µ R,T + 2880  dt .
                                                                                                 t
           
       k−h          6                  p x̂ −             t                                        
                                                t , T + 2880
                                                T + 2880
                                                                                             (E.15)
The above calculation assumes that there are 360 days per year and 8 hours per day. Because
t is measured in hours, it needs to be divided by 360 × 8 = 2880 to translate into annual
unit. Numerically, because the pre-announcement drift happens within hours before T , replacing
      t
T + 2880  with T does not make any material diﬀerence in the evaluation of (E.15). In addition, the
      ∫k
term k−h µR,T + t dt is negligible. We can therefore approximate the average return during hour
                 2880
(k − h, k) as                                      [ [ (
                       [∫ k   (          ) ]                         )
                                                                   + x̂− , q −
                                                                               ]]
                                    t                E p x̂+   , T
                     E       f 1 − α, δ dt × E               (
                                                             T
                                                                         )T T     .
                         k−h        6                      p x̂− T , T −




                                                    26
E.2    Time-non-separable Utilities

To guarantee that the model is well defined, we make the following assumptions on the weighting
function {ξ (t, s)}ts=0 .
                                ∫ t
                                    ξ (t, s) ds ≤ 1, for all t > 0.                      (E.16)
                                           0
                                     ∫ ∞
                                           ξ (t + s, t) ds < ∞, for all t > 0.                                   (E.17)
                                     0
                    (   ∫ t            )     ∫ t
                     1−     ξ (t, s) ds H0 +     ξ (t, s) Cs ds < Ct , for all t > 0.                            (E.18)
                            0                            0


    The first assumption requires that {ξ (t, s)}ts=0 is an appropriate weighting function, that is,
total weights is less than one. The second assumption implies that the contribution of Ct to future
habit stock is finite, and the last assumption ensures Ct − Ht > 0 so that the utility function is well
defined.


   External habit Under the assumption of complete markets, the state-price density can be
constructed from the marginal utility of the representative agent. In the external habit model,

                                                π t = e−βt u′ (Ct + bHt ) .


    Internal habit In this case, the calculation of the state price density must take into account of
the impact of Ct on future habit stock. Therefore, the state price density is given by (39). Because
announcement fully reveals xt , we need to show that
                            [∫ ∞                                                                   ]
                                         −βs                 ′
                        E            e         ξ (t + s, t) u (Ct+s + bHt+s ) ds xt = x                          (E.19)
                                 0

is a decreasing function of x. Without loss of generality, we assume t = 0 in the following lemma.

Lemma A.9. Fixing the path of Brownian motions {BC,s , Bx,s }∞
                                                             s=0 ,

                                      ∂
                                         [Ct + bHt ] > 0 f or all t > 0.                                         (E.20)
                                     ∂x0

Proof. Using the law of motion of Ct , we have
                                                                 ∫ t               ∫ t
                                               1
                                ln Ct = ln C0 − σ 2 t +                σdBC,s +           xs ds.
                                               2                  0                   0
                                                                         ∫t
Since xt is an Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process, we can solve                   0 xs ds explicitly:
              ∫ t                                                             ∫ t[                ]
                                    1 [           ]        1
                  xs ds = (x0 − x̄)     1 − e−ax t + x̄t +                           1 − eax (s−t) σ x dBx,s .
                0                   ax                     ax                  0



                                                             27
Therefore, for given realizations of the Brownian motion paths,

                                      ∂          1 [           ]
                                         Ct = Ct     1 − e−ax t ,
                                     ∂x0         ax

and
                                          ∫ t
                              ∂                      ∂Cs
                                 Ht =           ξ (t, s)  ds
                             ∂x0         0           ∂x0
                                        ∫ t
                                                         1 [           ]
                                      =     ξ (t, s) Cs      1 − e−ax t ds
                                         0              ax
                                        ∫ t
                                                           1 [            ]
                                      <     ξ (t, s) Cs ds     1 − e−ax t
                                         0                 ax
                                            1  [           ]
                                      < Ct       1 − e−ax t ,
                                           ax

where the first inequality is true because s < t, and the second is due to the fact that
∫t
 0 ξ (t, s) Cs ds ≤ Ht < Ct . The inequality (E.20) follows because b < 1.


   Consider two initial conditions, x0 = x and x0 = x′ . The above lemma implies that x > x′
                                                           ′
implies that Ct+s + bHt+s first order stochastic dominate Ct+s      ′ . Because u′ (·) is a strictly
                                                               + bHt+s
decreasing function, we conclude that (E.19) must be a decreasing function of x.


    Consumption substitutability Because (E.19) is decreasing function of x, with b > 0, the
state price density in (39) must be a decreasing function of xt as well. As a result, the announcement
premium must be positive for any payoﬀ that is increasing in xt .




                                                    28
References
[1] Carlier, Guillaume, and Rose-Anne Dana, 2003, Core of Convex Distortions of a Probability, Journal of
   Economic Theory 113, 199–222.

[2] Chen, Zengjing, and Larry Epstein, 2002, Ambiguity, Risk, and Asset Returns in Continuous Time,
   Econometrica 70, 1403–1443.

[3] Duﬃe, Darrell, and Larry G. Epstein, 1992, Stochastic Diﬀerential Utility, Econometrica 60, 353–394.

[4] Epstein, Larry, and Martin Schneider, 2003, Recursive multiple-priors, Journal of Economic Theory 113,
   1–31.

[5] Epstein, Larry, and Stanley E. Zin, 1989, Substitution, Risk Aversion, and the Temporal Behavior of
   Consumption and Asset Returns: A Theoretical Framework, Econometrica 57, 937–969.

[6] Ergin, Haluk, and Faruk Gul, 2009, A Theory of Subjective Compound Lotteries, Journal of Economic
   Theory 144, 899–929.

[7] Gilboa, Itzhak, and David Schmeidler, 1989, Maxmin expected utility with non-unique prior, Journal of
   Mathematical Economics 18, 141–153.

[8] Hansen, Lars Peter, and Thomas Sargent, 2008, Robustness. (Princeton, New Jersey: Princeton University
   Press).

[9] Hayashi, Takashi, 2005, Intertemporal substitution, risk aversion and ambiguity aversion, Economic
   Theory 25, 933–956.

[10] Hayashi, Takashi, and Jianjun Miao, 2011, Intertemporal Substitution and Recursive Smooth Ambiguity
   Preferences, Theoretical Economics 121, 496–520.

[11] Kechris, Alexander S., 1995, Classical Descriptive Set Theory. (Springer-Verlag, NY, Inc).

[12] Klibanoﬀ, Peter, Massimo Marinacci, and Sujoy Mukerji, 2005, A Smooth Model of Decision Making
   under Ambiguity, Econometrica 73, 1849–1892.

[13] Klibanoﬀ, Peter, Massimo Marinacci, and Sujoy Mukerji, 2009, Recursive Smooth Ambiguity
   Preferences, Journal of Economic Theory 144, 930–976.

[14] Kreps, David M., and Evan L. Porteus, 1978, Temporal Resolution of Uncertainty. and Dynamic Choice
   Theory, Econometrica 46, 185–200.

[15] Kushner, Harold J, and Paul Dupuis, 2001, Numerical Methods for Stochastic Control Problems in
   Continuous Time. (Springer-Verlag, NY, Inc).

[16] Luenberger, David G., 1997, Optimization by Vector Space Methods. (Wiley-Interscience; 1969 edition).

[17] Maccheroni, Fabio, Massimo Marinacci, and Aldo Rustichini, 2006a, Ambiguity Aversion, Robustness,
   and the Variational Representation of Preferences, Econometrica 74, 1447–1498.

[18] Maccheroni, Fabio, Massimo Marinacci, and Aldo Rustichini, 2006b, Dynamic variational preferences,
   Journal of Economic Theory 128, 4–44.


                                                    29
[19] Milgrom, Paul, and Ilya Segal, 2002, Envelope Theorems for Arbitrary Choice Sets, Econometrica 70,
   583–601.

[20] Muller, Alfred, and Dietrich Stoyan, 2002, Comparison Methods for Stochastic Models and Risks. (Wiley
   Series in Probability and Statistics, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd).

[21] Rothschild, Michael, and Joseph E. Stiglitz, 1970, Increasing Risk: A Definition, Journal of Economic
   Theory pp. 225–243.

[22] Strzalecki, Tomasz, 2011, Axiomatic Foundations of Multiplier Preferences, Econometrica 79, 47–73.

[23] Strzalecki, Tomasz, 2013, Temporal resolution of uncertainty and recursive models ambiguity aversion,
   Econometrica 81, 1039–1074.

[24] Tapia, Richard A., 1971, The Diﬀerentiation and Integration of Nonlinear Operators, in L.B.Rall, eds.:
   Nonlinear Functional Analysis and Applications (Academic Press, New York, ).

[25] Werner, Jan, 2009, Risk and Risk Aversion When States of Nature Matter, Economic Theory 41, 231–
   246.




                                                    30
