   Day-of-the-Week Effects in Financial Futures: An Analysis of GNMA, T-Bond, T-Note, and
   T-Bill Contracts
   Author(s): Elizabeth Tashijan Johnston, William A. Kracaw and John J. McConnell
   Source: The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Vol. 26, No. 1 (Mar., 1991), pp. 23-44

   Published by: Cambridge University Press on behalf of the University of Washington School of
   Business Administration
   Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2331241
   Accessed: 10-02-2016 19:30 UTC



   Your use of the JSTOR archive indicates your acceptance of the Terms & Conditions of Use, available at http://www.jstor.org/page/
   info/about/policies/terms.jsp

   JSTOR is a not-for-profit service that helps scholars, researchers, and students discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content
   in a trusted digital archive. We use information technology and tools to increase productivity and facilitate new forms of scholarship.
   For more information about JSTOR, please contact support@jstor.org.




            University of Washington School of Business Administration and Cambridge University Press are collaborating with
            JSTOR to digitize, preserve and extend access to The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis.


http://www.jstor.org



                                   This content downloaded from 128.210.126.199 on Wed, 10 Feb 2016 19:30:24 UTC
                                                    All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions
JOURNAL         ANDQUANTITATIVE
      OFFINANCIAL            ANALYSIS                           VOL26, NO.1, MARCH
                                                                                 1991




Day-of-the-Week              Effects      in Financial       Futures:
An Analysis         of GNMA,           T-Bond,     T-Note,       and    T-Bill
Contracts


Elizabeth Tashijan       Johnston,      William   A. Kracaw,     and
John J. McConnell*




Abstract

This paper provides a comprehensive study of weekly seasonal effects in GNMA, T-bond,
T-note, and T-bill futures returns. Two distinct patterns are found in returns on GNMA,
T-bond, and T-note contracts, while no seasonals are noted for T-bill futures. A negative
Monday seasonal?similar      to the well-known Monday effect in stock returns?is found
for GNMA and T-bond contracts. A positive Tuesday seasonal is found on GNMA,
T-bond, and T-note contracts. Our evidence indicates that the significance of weekly sea?
sonals depends in an important way on the time period studied. The negative Monday
phenomenon occurs only in the data before 1982, while the positive Tuesday effect is
present only after 1984. In addition, we find that both seasonal phenomena occur only
during months prior to a delivery month. This effect appears to be related to the calendar
month. More specifically, the Monday effect is apparently concentrated during February,
while the Tuesday effect is concentrated during May.


I.   Introduction

       A substantial volume of research recently establishes         the existence of
weekly   seasonals  in asset returns. Most  of this work has been  concerned    with the
pattern  in stock  market   data that has come   to be known  as the  day-of-the-week
effect. Detailed studies have been carried out by French (1980), Gibbons and
Hess (1981), Lakonishok and Levi (1982), and Keim and Stambaugh (1984),
which show that, on average, stock returns are negative on Monday and lower on
Monday than on other days of the week. Subsequently, Rogalski (1984) reports
evidence that suggests that the negative returns on Monday occur between Fri-
day's close and Monday's open and, therefore, should more properly be called a
"weekend"     effect in stock returns. Weekend phenomena also have been docu-
mented in foreign stock returns by Jaffee and Westerfield (1985). Using intraday
stock returns, Smirlock and Starks (1986) show that, over time, the seasonal
      *
        Johnston, Freeman School of Business, Tulane University, New Orleans, LA 70118, and
GraduateSchool of Business, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT 84112; Kracaw and McCon?
nell, KrannertGraduateSchool of Management,PurdueUniversity, West Lafayette, IN 47907. The
authorsgratefullyacknowledgethe helpful commentscontributedby SanjaiBhagat, BarrySchachter,
and an anonymousJFQA referee. They also thank Dunn and Hargitt, Inc, for supplying the data
used in the study.

                                            23


      This content downloaded from 128.210.126.199 on Wed, 10 Feb 2016 19:30:24 UTC
                       All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions
24   Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis


associated with Monday "moves" from trading hours on Monday to nontrading
hours during the weekend. Also, Harris (1986) demonstrates that the weekend
effect documented by Rogalski is related to firm size. Finally, Connolly (1989)
provides evidence that casts doubt on the existence of any weekend effect in
stock returns during the post-1975 period.
       In addition to the extensive research into the weekly seasonal in stock re?
turns, there is a smaller, growing literature that investigates seasonal patterns in
other financial markets. For example, Gibbons and Hess (1981) report that re?
turns on an index of T-bills with constant maturity are lower on Monday than on
other days of the week. Flannery and Protopapadakis (1988) document, from
1977 to 1984, a Monday seasonal in a variety of U.S. Treasury securities that is
more negative for securities with longer maturities. Significant day-of-the-week
effects also are documented in the federal funds market by Cornell (1983) and
Eisemann and Timme (1984) and in markets for foreign exchange by McFarland,
Pettit, and Sung (1982). Additionally, there are other studies that investigate the
daily patterns in returns on financial futures contracts. Chiang and Tapley (1983)
find weekly seasonals?including        a Monday effect?in       daily returns on a vari?
ety of futures contracts. Two other papers, one by Cornell (1985) and a subse-
quent correction by Dyl and Maberly (1986), find that returns on the S&P 500
stock index future exhibit a closed-market weekend effect similar to that previ-
ously found in stock (cash) returns. More recently, Gay and Kim (1987) find a
negative Monday seasonal in the Commodity Research Bureau (CRB) futures
price index. In addition, Chang and Kim (1988) find evidence of a negative Mon?
day in both the Dow Jones Commodity Price cash and futures indices. For both
of these latter studies, however, all indications of a Monday effect had disap-
peared in the futures data by 1982.
       The purpose of this paper is to further the investigation of seasonal effects in
financial futures markets. In the analysis that follows, daily returns on GNMA,
Treasury bond, Treasury note, and Treasury bill futures are examined from the
time contracts began trading in each market through December 1988. The study
clarifies and expands upon previous research documenting seasonal patterns in
returns on GNMA and T-bond contracts and provides, to the best of our knowl-
edge, the first analysis of returns on T-note and T-bill futures. The data used in
this study are more extensive and complete than in other studies of financial fu?
tures contracts. This enables us to provide a more thorough investigation of ob-
served seasonal patterns in futures returns than has been documented previously.
In particular, because our data include daily opening and closing prices, we dis-
tinguish between seasonal effects that occur during trading hours and those that
occur while the market is closed. Also, our data cover a longer time period than
has been used in previous studies of futures returns. This enables us to examine,
as has been done previously for stock returns, the persistence and stability of
observed seasonal effects over time. Finally, the size of the sample used here
allows us to examine rigorously the effect of contract maturity on seasonal phe-
nomena, without introducing contemporaneous           correlation in returns?a    prob-
lem encountered in previous research on futures contracts.
       Our analysis identifies two significant seasonal patterns in the data. First,
for GNMA and T-bond contracts, average returns on Mondays are found to be



      This content downloaded from 128.210.126.199 on Wed, 10 Feb 2016 19:30:24 UTC
                       All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions
                                                    Johnston,   Kracaw, and McConnell           25


negative and statistically different from zero. This pattern is similar to the Mon?
day effect evidenced in studies of stock returns and returns on stock index fu?
tures. Additionally,   the negative Monday return observed for T-bond futures
closely parallels that found by Flannery and Protopapadakis (1988) in the cash
market for "long-term"     Treasuries. As with stock market returns, the negative
Monday seasonal in GNMA and T-bond contracts is associated with the weekend
and not with holidays or other market closings. At the same time, however, we
find that this pattern occurs only in the earlier returns in the data?the     period
before January 1980. Moreover, we find that the Monday phenomena are con-
fined in two other important ways. First, the effect occurs during trading hours
on Monday, as opposed to over the weekend for stocks and stock index futures.
Second, the effect occurs only in contracts traded during months immediately
prior to a delivery month, and is more pronounced in returns during February.
      The other significant pattern we observe is a positive Tuesday effect on
GNMA, T-bond, and T-note contracts. For these contracts, average returns on
Tuesday are positive and significantly different from zero. In contrast to the
Monday effect, the Tuesday phenomenon is confined to the more recent returns
in the sample?occurring     after December 1984. In addition, the Tuesday effect
also appears during nontrading hours and only on contracts traded prior to a de?
livery month. In this case, the effect is more pronounced in returns during May.
      Finally, we find no significant seasonal patterns in returns on T-bill con?
tracts. Average returns on T-bill contracts are not significantly different from
zero for any of the samples tested. This contrasts with the finding of Gibbons and
Hess (1981) of a Monday effect in the cash market for T-bills. Another implica?
tion is that, over all of the contracts studied, significant seasonal patterns are
found only for those traded over the Chicago Board of Trade (GNMA, T-bond,
and T-note contracts) and not those traded over the International Money Market
of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (T-bill contracts).
      The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section II provides a
description of the data employed. Section III contains the main body of our em?
pirical analysis and the results. The major findings of our analysis are discussed
and concluding remarks are made in Section IV.


II.    Data

      The data consist of daily observations of the opening and closing prices for
futures contracts on GNMAs, U.S. Treasury bonds, U.S. Treasury notes, and
U.S. Treasury bills. * Each of these contracts matures during one of four months
in the delivery cycle: March, June, September, or December. Because the con?
tracts have been traded for different periods of time, the sample periods and num?
ber of contracts vary as shown on p. 26.
      The GNMA futures contract used in this study is the GNMA CDR, which
was the most actively traded among GNMA futures contracts. In the fall of 1985,
the daily volume on the GNMA CDR futures contract fell to the point where
com-

      1 The data were providedby Dunn and Hargitt, Inc, and consist of daily high, low, open, and
settlementprices. By using the highest volume contractsin most of the subsequenttests, it is reaspn-
able to interprethe settlementprice as the actualclosing price.


       This content downloaded from 128.210.126.199 on Wed, 10 Feb 2016 19:30:24 UTC
                        All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions
26   Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis




plete daily price quotations were no longer given in the financial press. Conse-
quently, we terminate the sample in August 1985. Prices for GNMA, T-bonds,
and T-note contracts involve transactions on the Chicago Board of Trade (CBT).
Prices on T-bill futures reflect trades on the International Money Market (IMM)
of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
      Unless otherwise noted, samples are constructed using the nearby contract
(nearest to delivery) except during a delivery month when the contract next near-
est to delivery is used. This process yields a non-overlapping price series for each
type of contract, involving a different number of contract maturities for each
distinct futures contract. This procedure provides several advantages over more
general sampling procedures. First, it confines the sample to the most actively
traded contracts. Up until the delivery month, trading volume in a particular con?
tract generally increases. Once the delivery month is reached, volume quickly
shifts to the contract next nearest to delivery. Using the highest volume contracts
should result in more accurate measurement of "equilibrium"          prices. Second,
this procedure avoids the potential problem of contemporaneous             correlation
among data that do include more distant contracts. That is, under the procedure
used here, the price of only one contract?that      with the highest daily volume?
 is used for each trading day in the sample. When more distant contracts are in-
cluded, the prices of more than one contract are used for each trading day. Corre?
lation among prices recorded on the same days would seriously compromise the
validity of the statistical tests used in the study. And finally, by using contracts
that are close to delivery, we minimize the susceptibility of the contract price to
confounding effects caused by shifts in the term structure of interest rates and/or
shifts in market risk premia.2
      Continuously     compounded      returns are calculated from each price series as,


                                            =        P<+1
                                                Ln
                                   /r+l
                                                       P,

where Pt represents the contract price at time t. Since no real investment takes
place when a contract is bought or sold, trt+l represents a "return" in the sense
that it measures the continuously compounded change in the contract price from t
to t+ 1. Unless otherwise noted, returns that occur over a holiday, and the day
following a holiday, are deleted. Thus, the resulting series represent "normal"
one-day and weekend returns.
      For each type of contract, daily returns are computed from closing price to
closing price, closing price to opening price, and opening price to closing price.

    2 Evidence of the existence of risk premiain the prices of commodityfuturescontractshas been
noted recently by Chang (1985) and by Fama and French (1987). To the extent that premiaexist in
ourdata, the size of such premiashould generallybe smallest for those contractsclosest to delivery.



       This content downloaded from 128.210.126.199 on Wed, 10 Feb 2016 19:30:24 UTC
                        All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions
                                                  Johnston,    Kracaw, and McConnell          27


This procedure allows us to distinguish between seasonalities               that occur during
nontrading hours and those that occur during trading hours.


III.    Analysis       and   Results

A.     The Daily Returns       Sample

      General characteristics of the daily returns data are presented in Table 1.
Average returns are calculated for each contract type, using the entire sample. In
these and all subsequent tabulations, average returns are multiplied by 100 to
reflect percent equivalents. Two-tailed r-tests are performed to determine if sam?
ple means are significantly different from zero.3 On the close-to-close  basis, Pa-
nel A shows that mean daily returns for GNMA, T-bond, and T-bill contracts are
negative, while the mean return for the T-note contract is positive. Looking at the
intraday returns (Panels B and C), the negative average close-to-close   return ob-
served on GNMA and T-bond contracts appears to be driven by trading time
returns. For T-notes and T-bills, the most dominant intraday returns occur during
nontrading hours.

                                           TABLE 1
                   Statistical Summary of Daily Returns (%) by Type of Futures
                               Contract for the Entire Sample Periodab

                          GNMA                T-Bond               T-Note               T-Bill
                         Contracts           Contracts            Contracts           Contracts
PanelA. Returns (%) Computed from Closing Price to Closing Price
Mean Return           -0.0036          -0.0083               0.0285           -0.0013
f-Statistic           -0.25            -0.48                 1.97             -0.11
Sample Size               2319             2635                1555               3046
Panel B. Returns (%) Computed from Opening Price to Closing Price (Trading Time)
Mean Return          -0.0171           -0.0192              0.0100             0.0003
f-Statistic          -1.28             -1.26                0.81               0.03
Sample Size              2319              2635               1555               3046
Panel C Returns (%) Computed from Closing Price to Opening Price (Nontrading Time)




a f-statistic tests the null hypothesis that the mean returnis zero.
b Sample size is the number of daily returns included in the computation of the mean return.

       On closer examination,    separate t-tests indicate that the close-to-close and
intra-day returns for each contract are not significantly different from zero. In
addition, when intra-day returns are compared with each other via a two-sided t-
test,. no significant difference in means is detected for any of the contract types.

     3 Because futures contracts involve no investment, the reasonable null hypothesis is that the
return(continuouslycompoundedpercentagechange in price) on the contractis zero. Consequently,
we use a two-sided Mest to test the null hypothesis that the returnis zero against the two-sided
alternativethatthe returnis not zero.



        This content downloaded from 128.210.126.199 on Wed, 10 Feb 2016 19:30:24 UTC
                         All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions
28    Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis


Thus, there are no permanent positive or negative components in the aggregate
futures returns?either on a close to close basis, or using intraday returns.

B.    Day-of-the-Week         Patterns

      To examine the data for daily seasonals, returns are classified by day of the
week for each contract type. Mean returns are computed for each day of the
week, and f-tests are performed to determine if sample means are significantly
nonzero. Since this procedure divides the returns data for each contract into mul-
tiple (5) subsamples, some care must be taken when interpreting two-sided r-tests
on isolated subsamples. "Significant"    r-statistics may appear merely because the
data are split into a sufficient number of samples. Therefore, for samples where
significant average returns are detected for a particular day of the week, a multi-
ple F-test is performed to determine if the average returns on all days of the week
in the sample are jointly equal. This test is made by performing a regression of
the form4

                   =
(1)           rt       % + aMXM,t + aWXW,t + aTXT,t + aFXF,t + et >

 where rt =        futures return for day f;
          =        1 if day t is the ith day of the week, 0 otherwise;
      Xit
          =
       at          regression coefficient for each day of the week i, Mon (/ = M),
                   Wed (i = W), Thur (i = T)9 Fri (i = F); and
              =    random error term for day t.
         et
An F-statistic     is then calculated    to test the null hypothesis,

(2)                              #o     : aM =        =        =
                                                 aw       aT       aF.

Failure to reject the null suggests that any apparent patterns in daily returns that
are observed when performing significance tests in isolation are not robust and
are probably due to the effect of multiple subsamples.        Under these circum-
stances, such results cannot be viewed as evidence ofa daily seasonal.
      Results from the day-of-the-week   tests are presented in Table 2. Average
returns computed from close to close, open to close, and close to open are pre?
sented by day of the week for each contract type.5 Some interesting and familiar
patterns are revealed. First, a negative Monday effect, associated in many other
      4 The interceptfor the regression in Equation(1) contains the effect of the "return"generated
on Tuesday. Thus, the coefficients on dummy variablesfor the remainingdays of the week measure
the marginaleffect of each day relative to Tuesday. An alternativespeciflcationwould be to suppress
the interceptand include dummies for each of the 5 tradingdays of the week; however, this speciflca?
tion will introducebias into the coefficient estimates if the truemean returnis nonzero.
      5 Both the close to close and the close to open returnsactuallyoccur over two calendardays. For
any particularday, close to close returnsare computed from the previous day's close to the close of
thattradingday. Close to open returnsfor that day are computedfrom the previousday's close to the
open of tradingon that day. Each day's close to close returnis the sum of the same day's nontrading
(close to open) returnand the same day's trading(open to close) return.For example, Monday'sclose
to close returncovers the period from the market'sclose on Fridayto the market'sclose on Monday;
the "Monday" nontradingperiod is from the market'sclose on Fridayto the market'sopen on Mon?
day; and the Monday tradingtime returnis simply the returnfrom Monday's opening to Monday's
closing.



        This content downloaded from 128.210.126.199 on Wed, 10 Feb 2016 19:30:24 UTC
                         All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions
                                              Johnston,    Kracaw, and McConnell      29


studies with stock returns, is also apparent in GNMA and T-bond futures returns.
Using close to close returns (Panel A), average returns are negative on Monday
and statistically nonzero at the 0.01 level of significance for the GNMA contract
and at the 0.05 level for the T-bond contract. Additionally,     average returns on
GNMA, T-bond, and T-note contracts are positive on Tuesday and are statisti?
cally different from zero for T-bonds at the 0.05 level, and for T-notes at the 0.01
level. The positive Tuesday return on GNMA futures, however, is significant
only at the 0.15 level. The negative Monday effect is similar to that found by
Chiang and Tapley (1983). (However, using close to close returns, they find an
additional negative effect on Wednesday, and no positive Tuesday effect.)




                                (continued on next page)


      This content downloaded from 128.210.126.199 on Wed, 10 Feb 2016 19:30:24 UTC
                       All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions
30   Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis


                                  TABLE 2 (continued)
Statistical Summary of Daily Returns (%) by Type of Futures Contract for the Entire Sample
                        Period Classified by Day of the Weekabc
                    Mon.          Tues.          Wed.         Thurs.         Fri.          F5




a f-statistic tests the null hypothesis that the mean return equals zero using a two-tailed test;
   *, and **, indicate significance at the 0.01 and 0.05 levels, respectively.
b F5 is the F-statistic testing the null hypothesis that mean returns are equal across all five
                       *
   days of the week; and **, indicate significance at the 0.01 and 0.05 levels, respectively.
c Sample size indicates the number of daily returns included in the computation of each
   mean by day of the week.
        Next, an F-test is performed to determine if the patterns observed above are
an artifact of subdividing the original sample. The F-statistic tests whether the
marginal difference between Tuesday and the remaining days of the week are
jdintly zero, as stated in (1) and (2). The relevant F-statistic is reported in Table 2
as F5. Using close to close returns, F5 indicates that the null can be rejected at the
0.01-significance       level for both the GNMA and the T-bond contracts, and at the
0.05 level      for the T-note contract. This indicates that close to close returns are
significantly different across days of the week. The F5 statistic is insignificant for
the T-bill contract. Therefore, the negative average return observed from the
close of the market on Friday to the close of the market on Monday in the GNMA
and T-bond contracts, and the positive average return from the close of the mar?
ket on Monday to the close of the market on Tuesday in the T-bond and T-note
contracts appear to be robust.
        Comparing results using intraday returns, it is clear that the significant
seasonals observed using close to close data are concentrated during trading
hours. Using open to close returns, average returns from GNMA and T-bond
contracts are negative on Monday and significant at the 0.05 level. Moreover, the
F-tests indicate that trading time returns are not equal across days of the week for
GNMA or T-bond contracts. At the same time, using open to close returns, no
 significant Monday effect is observed in either contract. Similarly, the average
Tuesday returns for the T-bond and T-note contracts are significantly positive
during trading time, and not significantly different from zero during nontrading
time. An additional seasonal (also observed by Chiang and Tapley (1983) using



       This content downloaded from 128.210.126.199 on Wed, 10 Feb 2016 19:30:24 UTC
                        All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions
                                                  Johnston,    Kracaw, and McConnell          31


close to close returns) also appears in our trading time data. The average trading
time return is significantly negative on Wednesday for GNMA and T-bond con?
tracts.
      A weaker pattern of seasonals occurs during nontrading hours. For GNMA
and T-bond contracts, there are positive average returns observed from the close
of the market on Tuesday to the open on Wednesday, and from the close of the
market on Thursday until the open of the market on Friday. Compared to the
effects on Monday, however, the magnitude of these effects is much smaller and
their statistical significance is more tenuous. In fact, for the GNMA contract, the
F-statistic cannot reject (at the 0.05 level) the hypothesis that the returns are
equal across days of the week.
      Regarding T-bill futures, the numbers reported in Table 2 indicate no evi?
dence of significant seasonal patterns. Using close to close, open to close, and
close to open returns, average T-bill contract returns are not significantly differ?
ent from zero at the 0.05 level. The multivariate F-tests also support the absence
of significant differences in the mean returns across days of the week.
      It is perhaps not surprising that a similar pattern?the   negative Monday?
is observed for both GNMA and T-bond futures. Both contracts are based on
long-term, fixed income securities with similar default risk, and both are traded
over the CBT. The T-note contract, which is based on an intermediate term secu?
rity, exhibits a different pattern, a positive return on Tuesday. The T-bill con?
tract, for which no significant seasonals are found, is based on the 90-day instru-
ment and is traded on the IMM.6 These observations suggest that the seasonal
phenomena documented in futures markets, and possibly other markets, are re-
lated to characteristics of the underlying security (e.g., term to maturity), or to
the exchange involved.
      Placed in perspective with previous studies of daily seasonals in other mar?
kets, the results above offer some additional interesting comparisons. In particu?
lar, the negative Monday effect observed on GNMA and T-bond contracts is
similar to the Monday effect observed previously by Cornell (1985) and Dyl and
Maberly (1986) in the market for stock index futures. This adds support to the
possibility that negative Monday effects are relatively frequent phenomena in
financial markets?especially   futures markets. On the other hand, the Monday
effects in GNMA and T-bond futures are different in at least one important re-
spect from Monday seasonals observed in other markets, including the market
for S&P 500 futures. The Monday effect in S&P 500 futures returns has been
shown to occur during the weekend?from        Friday's close to Monday's open.
For T-bond and GNMA contracts, the negative seasonal occurs during trading
hours on Monday. Additionally,    no Monday effect is found for either T-note or
T-bill contracts.
     6 Aside from the obvious differences in the cash instrumentsinvolved, there are more subtle
differences among GNMA, T-bond, T-note, and T-bill futurescontractsthat could contributeto the
contrastingbehaviorof contractreturns.One such differenceconcernsthe so-called delivery options.
There are a varietyof securitiesthat may be delivered againstGNMA, T-bond, and T-note contracts.
Only 90-, 91-, or 92-day securities may be delivered against the T-bill contract.The importanceof
delivery options to the valuationof futurescontractshas been discussed in a numberof papers. Basi-
cally, a delivery option involves the delivery of bonds of differing quality?e.g., coupon rate?and
the timing of such deliveries. See Garbadeand Silber (1983), Gay and Manaster(1984), (1986),
Johnston(1986), and Kane and Marcus(1986a), (1986b) for a more complete discussion.



       This content downloaded from 128.210.126.199 on Wed, 10 Feb 2016 19:30:24 UTC
                        All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions
32   Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis


      The results above provide mixed evidence on the question of whether
seasonal patterns observed in futures returns are merely reflections (especially for
nearby contracts) of seasonals in the underlying cash returns. For example, the
negative Monday evidenced in S&P 500 futures closely parallels the well-known
negative Monday effect in cash stock returns. Indeed, a similar phenomenon is
evidenced above. The negative Monday observed above in T-bond futures re?
turns also resembles the Monday phenomenon observed by Flannery and Proto-
papadakis (1988) in the cash market for long-term Treasuries. At the same time,
however, while Gibbons and Hess find a Monday seasonal in (cash) T-bill re?
turns, we find no evidence of a parallel pattern in T-bill futures returns. Thus, the
question remains as to whether seasonal patterns in futures returns generally re-
flect more fundamental patterns in cash market returns.

C.   Holiday    Returns

     In this section, contract returns occurring over holidays and days following
holidays   are examined.   These data were excluded from our previous tests to
avoid any peculiar effects associated with holiday closings. Similar investiga-
tions of holidays have been carried out in studies of stock returns to show that the
negative average return observed from Friday's close to Monday's open is asso?
ciated with the weekend, per se, and not generally with market closings. We are
interested here in whether the Monday effect associated with GNMA and T-bond
futures returns is also a peculiarity of the weekend or a phenomenon associated
with market closings in general.
      To examine this prospect, returns over each holiday for GNMA and T-bond
contracts are calculated as follows: (1) from market close on the day preceding
the holiday to market close on the day following the holiday (close to close),
(2) from the market close on the day preceding the holiday to the market open on
the day following the holiday (close to open), and (3) from the market open to the
market close on the day following the holiday (open to close). Average returns
are computed for each of the contracts in the sample, and f-tests are performed to
determine if average returns are significantly nonzero. Results are presented be-
low.
                          Close to Close          Close to Open            Open to Close
                           Returns (%)             Returns (%)              Returns (%)
GNMA
  Mean                       0.0698                   0.0327                   0.0371
  f-Statistic                1.10                     0.76                     0.66
  Sample Size                  161                      161                      161
T-Bonds
  Mean                       0.1294                   0.0554                   0.0740
  f-Statistic                1.64                     1.30                     1.04
  Sample Size                  179                      179                      179

There is no indication that the Monday (or weekend) effects previously observed
for GNMA and T-bond futures also occur as a result of holiday closings. Returns
over holidays are not significantly different from zero.
     These results are similar to previous evidence on stock returns. The negative



      This content downloaded from 128.210.126.199 on Wed, 10 Feb 2016 19:30:24 UTC
                       All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions
                                                  Johnston,   Kracaw, and McConnell          33


Monday seasonal apparently does not occur merely because the market is closed
during the previous day. There is something peculiar about the (regular) weekend
that produces the Monday seasonal observed in GNMA and T-bond futures re?
turns. And, even though the effect concerning stock returns is generated during
the weekend, whereas that involving GNMA and T-bond futures appears during
Monday trading hours, it is interesting that both phenomena?involving      differ?
ent instruments and different markets?are    generally linked to the weekend pe?
riod.7

D.    Influence   of the Sample      Period    on Day-of-the-Week         Seasonals

      In this section, the data are divided into three subsamples, each covering a
different period of time. The purpose of this procedure is to determine whether
the observed seasonal patterns in the data are persistent over time. Concern over
this issue is motivated, in part, by previous research on stock returns. Smirlock
and Starks (1986) have recently reported that the negative Monday (or weekend)
effect in stock returns has been "moving up" in time. That is, over a period from
1963 to 1983, they find evidence of a negative seasonal during earlier years in the
data that is concentrated during trading hours on Monday. During later years,
they find the negative effect "moves" to become concentrated during nontrading
hours over the weekend. Additionally, Gay and Kim (1987) and Chang and Kim
(1988) have reported negative Monday seasonals in the CRB futures index and
the Dow Jones Commodity Price Index that disappear during the most recent
months of their samples. This suggests the possibility that the Monday effect in
GNMA and T-bond futures revealed in our previous tests may not be a perma-
nent characteristic of the data or may be changing over the time period studied.
      Returns are grouped as occurring in the period prior to January 1981, from
January 1981 through December 1984, and from January 1985 through Decem-
ber 1988 (or, in the case of the GNMA CDR contract, through August 1985).
These sample periods are labeled 1,2,         and 3, respectively. The number of
months included in each sample involved for each type of contract is as follows

                                              Number of Months in the Sample




Because each type of futures contract began trading on a different date, the num?
ber of months covered in the first sample period varies across the different types
of contracts. The second and third periods cover equal 48-month intervals. The
T-note contract did not begin trading until May 1982, so the contract did not
trade in the first period, and only traded for 32 months in the second period. The


     7 Holiday returnswere analyzed for T-note and T-bill contractsalso. Similar results were ob-
tained. No seasonaleffects were found in returnsto eithercontractaroundholidayclosings.



       This content downloaded from 128.210.126.199 on Wed, 10 Feb 2016 19:30:24 UTC
                        All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions
34   Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis


GNMA     contract was deleted      from the data set in August    1985 because    of thin
trading.
       Using the nearby (with 1 or 2 months to maturity) and "next nearest" (with
3 months to maturity) contract, the average close-to-close      returns are computed
for each type of contract over each time period. Results are presented in Table 3.
It appears that neither the negative Monday effect nor the positive Tuesday effect
observed over the entire time period are stable through time. The negative
seasonal on Monday is clearly evident in the data for both the GNMA and
T-bond contracts before January 1981. This is consistent with the findings of
Chiang and Tapley (1983) who use data prior to 1981. After January 1981, how?
ever, there is no evidence that Monday's average return is significantly nonzero.
Thus, the prevalent seasonal pattern noted earlier is not present in the most recent
months. This pattern is similar to the results of Gay and Kim (1987) and Chang
and Kim (1988), which document the disappearance of Monday effects in the
CRB futures index and the Dow Jones Commodity Price Futures Index, respec?
tively, at approximately the same time. Additionally, it is during the later periods
that the positive average return on Tuesday is observed for GNMA, T-bond, and
T-note contracts. To the extent that this effect is regarded as a statistically signifi?
cant seasonal pattern in returns, it is clearly confined to the more recent months
of the data.
       Finally, the results concerning T-bill contracts are consistent with our previ?
ous findings. Using close to close returns, no significant seasonal pattern is ap-
parent. The average return for each day of the week is not statistically different
from zero in any of the subsamples.

E.   Influence   of the Delivery    Cycle   on Day-of-the-Week      Effects

      In the previous tests, returns data are based upon the nearby contract or,
where appropriate, the contracts next nearest to delivery. The reason for this pro-
cedure was to produce samples of high-volume contracts with noncontemporane-
ous returns. As a result, however, the samples include contracts with varying,
but relatively short, terms to delivery. This raises an additional question that
should be addressed. That is, to what extent are observed seasonal phenomena
due to time to delivery or position in the delivery cycle? Our previous tests were
based on samples composed of different "commodities"           (i.e., contracts with 1,
2,  and  3 months   to delivery). At a minimum,     it is important to distinguish by
term to delivery among the contracts in our previous samples. It is equally impor?
tant to include more distant contracts in the analysis as well. In so doing, we can
provide additional insight as to whether the seasonals in futures contracts origi-
nate in the futures market, per se, or are derived from seasonals in the cash mar?
ket. The property of convergence      between cash and futures implies that, as a
futures contract approaches maturity, the futures price will more closely mimic
the behavior of the cash price. As a result, observed seasonals on short-term
futures contracts could result merely from the approach of delivery as the futures
price more closely reflects "fundamental"       seasonal patterns in the cash price.
On the other hand, contracts with longer terms to delivery should be more inde?
pendent of the cash price. Evidence that seasonal effects in futures are confined
to contracts closer to delivery would support this explanation.



      This content downloaded from 128.210.126.199 on Wed, 10 Feb 2016 19:30:24 UTC
                       All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions
                                                  Johnston,   Kracaw, and McConnell          35


                                        TABLE 3
 Statistical Summary of Daily Returns (%) by Type of Futures Contract Classified by Day of
                               the Week and Time Periodabc
                (Returns (%) Computed from Closing Price to Closing Price)




                                (continued on next page)
      To examine the possibility that term to delivery is a factor in explaining the
seasonal patterns in returns, the data are classified by month to delivery. Since
this procedure permits us to differentiate among contracts that were traded at the
same time, we also are able to expand our samples to include more distant con?
tracts without introducing the problem of contemporaneous         correlation in the
data.8 The inclusion of more distant contracts is relevant to our analysis in two
respects. First, including these data allows us to determine whether the seasonal
effects noted earlier in returns on short-term contracts also are present in returns
on longer term contracts. And second, to examine the influence of term to deliv-



     8 For example, during months immediately preceding a delivery month, our previous sampling
procedureincludes only contractsthat had one month remainingto delivery?i.e., the nearbycon?
tract. At the same time, however, longer term contracts are tradedwith 4, 7, 10, etc, months to
delivery. Returnson those contractswill be contemporaneouslycorrelatedwith those on the 1-month
contract, so they were excluded from our previous samples. In this section, we include returnson
more distant contracts in the analysis, but not in the same samples. Each sample is classified by
numberof monthsto delivery, so introductionof correlationin samplereturnsis again avoided.



       This content downloaded from 128.210.126.199 on Wed, 10 Feb 2016 19:30:24 UTC
                        All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions
36   Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis


                                   TABLE 3 (continued)
 Statistical Summary of Daily Returns (%) by Type of Futures Contract Classified by Day of
                               the Week and Time Perioda-b-c
                (Returns (%) Computed from Closing Price to Closing Price)




a f-statistic tests the null hypothesis that the mean return equals zero using a two-tailed test;
  * and
         **, indicate significance at the 0.01 and 0.05 levels, respectively.
b Sample size indicates the number of daily returns included in the computation of each
  mean by day of the week.
c T-note contracts began trading in May 1982. Therefore, there are no observations in
  Period 1 for T-notes, and the sample period for T-notes in Period 2 begins in May 1982.
  Observations on the GNMA contract end in August 1985 in Period 3 because infrequent
  trading led to incomplete price information beginning in the fall of 1985.
ery on contract retums generally, it is necessary to consider a more representative
(by maturity) sample of those contracts that actually are traded.
       By expanding the sample, we include contracts that were traded as long as
11 months prior to the delivery month. This procedure confines our expanded
samples to relatively high-volume contracts and simultaneously                generates a rea-
sonable spectrum of maturities. Using close to close prices, average returns are
calculated by day of the week for each contract, at each maturity. Results for
GNMA, T-bond, and T-note contracts are reported in Tables 4, 5, and 6. Consis-
tent with our previous findings, significant day-of-the-week    seasonals again ap-
pear in returns on GNMA, T-bond, and T-note contracts, but not in returns on
T-bill contracts.9 The most interesting aspects of these results are summarized
below.
      The results in Tables 4 and 5 indicate that the seasonal patterns observed on
GNMA and T-bond contracts are not related to the term to delivery on the con?
tract, per se, but are apparently related to particular months during the delivery
cycle.10 For instance, the negative Monday return associated with GNMA and
     9 Tests concerning T-bill contracts found no significant patternsin the data. Tabulatedresults
areomittedhere, but are availablefrom the authorson request.
      10Because the futures contractsmaturequarterly,returnson contractswith 3, 6, and 9 months
remaininguntil the delivery month are realized duringa delivery month. Returnson contractswith 1,
4, 7, and 10 months remaininguntil the delivery month are realized in months precedinga delivery



       This content downloaded from 128.210.126.199 on Wed, 10 Feb 2016 19:30:24 UTC
                        All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions
                                                  Johnston,    Kracaw, and McConnell          37



                                        TABLE 4
 Statistical Summary of Daily Returns (%) Computed from Closing Price to Closing Price on
      GNMA Futures Contracts Classified by Month to Delivery and Day of the Weekab




a Using a two-tailed test, f-statistic tests the null hypothesis that the mean daily returnequals
                  ***indicate
  zero; *, **,and              significance at the 0.01, 0.05, and 0.10 levels, respectively.
b Sample size is the number of daily returns included in the computation of the mean return.

T-bond contracts occurs only during nondelivery months. Moreover, the most
dominant pattern in these two contracts involves months immediately prior to a
delivery month. Average returns on GNMA and T-bond contracts with 1, 4, 7,
and 10 months remaining until delivery each exhibit a similar, significant nega?
tive average return on Monday.

month;those with 2, 5, 8, and 11 months remaininguntil the delivery month are realized in months
immediatelyfollowing a delivery month.


       This content downloaded from 128.210.126.199 on Wed, 10 Feb 2016 19:30:24 UTC
                        All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions
38    Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis



                                         TABLE 5
 Statistical Summary of Daily Returns (%) Computed from Closing Price to Closing Price on
      T-Bond Futures Contracts Classified by Month to Delivery and Day of the Weekab




a Using a two-tailed test, f-statistic tests the null hypothesis that the mean daily returnequals
                  ***indicate
  zero; *, **,and              significance atthe 0.01, 0.05, and 0.10 levels, respectively.
b Sample size is the number of daily returns included in the computation of the mean return.



       The other significant seasonal in the data?the    positive Tuesday seasonal in
GNMA, T-bond, and T-note contracts?is            evident in Tables 4, 5, and 6. For
GNMA, T-bond, and T-note futures, average Tuesday returns are generally posi?
tive for contracts of all maturities. For GNMA and T-bond futures, however,
statistical significance of the Tuesday effect is confined to contracts traded imme?
diately prior to, or during a delivery month. For T-note futures, statistical signifi-



       This content downloaded from 128.210.126.199 on Wed, 10 Feb 2016 19:30:24 UTC
                        All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions
                                                   Johnston,   Kracaw, and McConnell          39


cance of the Tuesday effect is confined to contracts with shorter maturities?
especially those with 1,2, and 3 months remaining to delivery.11


                                         TABLE 6
 Statistical Summary of Daily Returns (%) Computed from Closing Price to Closing Price on
      T-Note Futures Contracts Classified by Month to Delivery and Day of the Weekab




a Using a two-tailed test, f-statistic tests the null hypothesis that the mean daily returnequals
                  ***indicate
  zero; *, **,and              significance at the 0.01, 0.05, and 0.10 levels, respectively.
b Sample size is the number of daily returns included in the computation of the mean return.

     11It should be pointed out that, while Monday and Tuesday seasonals indicated in Tables 4
through6 both occur duringmonthspriorto delivery months, they are not contemporaneousphenom?
ena. As was'demonstratedin our earliertests, the Monday effect is indicativeof GNMA and T-bond
returnsin the periodbefore January1981. The Tuesdayphenomenaobservedin GNMA, T-bond, and
T-notereturnsappearsin the dataduringthe period afterDecember 1984.



       This content downloaded from 128.210.126.199 on Wed, 10 Feb 2016 19:30:24 UTC
                        All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions
40   Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis


      The results above suggest that the delivery cycle may be an important deter-
minant of the observed seasonal patterns in GNMA, T-bond, and T-note con?
tracts. To further verify this prospect, additional tests are performed to determine
if the seasonal effects during months prior to a delivery month are, in fact, signi?
ficantly different from other months of the delivery cycle. Regressions of the
form, rt = b0 + bxXXt + b2X2t + ev are estimated for GNMA, T-bond, and T-note
futures, where rt represents the close to close return for day f; xXt and X2t are
dummy variables to indicate if returns occur during a month immediately prior to
a delivery month, or during a month immediately after a delivery month; bx and
b2 are coefficients; and et is an error term. In this specification, b0 captures any
effect due to returns in a delivery month. To avoid the problem of contemporane-
ous correlation in returns, the data are grouped by contract maturity into 4 non-
contemporaneous      subsamples as follows: 0, 1, and 2 months; 3, 4, and 5 months;
6, 7,   and  8 months; and 9, 10, and 11 months.12 Separate regressions are per?
formed on each group to yield F-statistics to test the null, bx = b2. This proce-
dure is performed on Monday close to close returns for GNMA and T-bond con?
tracts, and on Tuesday close to close returns for GNMAs, T-bonds, and T-notes.
In all cases, the test statistic fails to reject the null at a level of significance lower
than 0.05. These results provide evidence that the negative Monday and positive
Tuesday seasonals observed on GNMA, T-bond, and T-note contracts are not
generally associated with the delivery cycle itself. However, given the relation?
ship between delivery and calendar months, the significance may be associated
instead with a particular month (or months) of the year.
      To examine this result more carefully, close to close returns on nearby
GNMA, T-note, and T-bond contracts are classified once more by calendar
month.13 Average returns are recalculated by day of the week for each month of
the year. By confining our analysis to the nearby contracts, sample sizes are nec?
essarily quite small. Because of the relatively fewer number of T-note returns in
the data, sample sizes for T-notes, classified by month, were not sufficient to
make statistical inference. In addition, tests are further compromised by the mul-
tiple subsampling (by month) problem. Nevertheless,              the results of these tests
clarify  earlier indications   that the  predominant    seasonal   in the data?the   nega?
tive average return on Monday?occurs            during  months   immediately preceding a
delivery month.
      First, the negative Monday effect for GNMA and T-bond contracts is most
pronounced in the month of Febraary. For GNMA futures, average Monday re?
turns on the nearby contract during February are ? 0.506 percent, and are signifi?
cantly different from zero at the 0.05 level. For T-bond contracts, average Mon?
day returns during February are -0.517             percent, also significant at the 0.05

     12This procedureproduces sample sizes that are still quite large. For T-bond and GNMA con?
tracts, the smallest sample is 396. As the data on T-note contractswas less extensive, the smallest
sample was 73 observations (on the most distant maturities). In all cases, samples are sufficiently
largefor statisticalinference.
     13The sample includes returnson the nearbycontractduringnondeliverymonthsand returnson
the next nearestcontractduringdelivery months. As in some of our previoustests, inclusion of more
distantcontractsintroducesserious contemporaneouscorrelationin returnsand underminesthe sig?
nificanceof test statistics. We performeda similaranalysis using contractswith 4,5, and 6 monthsto
maturityandobtainedsimilarresults. These resultsare not reportedin the paper.



       This content downloaded from 128.210.126.199 on Wed, 10 Feb 2016 19:30:24 UTC
                        All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions
                                                  Johnston,   Kracaw, and McConnell           41


level. Average Monday returns during all other months are not significantly dif?
ferent from zero for either GNMA or T-bond contracts. Additionally,       the posi?
tive Tuesday seasonal previously observed on GNMA and T-bond futures during
months prior to a delivery month is confined to the month of May for both con?
tracts. For GNMA contracts, the average Tuesday return during May is 0.210
percent, and is significantly different from zero at the 0.05 level. For T-bond
contracts, the average Tuesday return during May is 0.274 percent, and is signifi?
cantly different from zero at the 0.05 level. For both types of contracts, average
Tuesday returns during all other months of the year are not significantly different
from zero.14

F.    Nonparametric      Tests

      In some previous studies using daily price data in other markets, it has been
established that the distributional properties of the data are significantly nonnor-
mal (see, e.g., McFarland, Pettit, and Sung (1982)). In order to assure that our
previous results are robust, nonparametric tests are performed to augment our
earlier tests. Daily returns on the nearby contract (or next nearest contract during
delivery months) are reexamined for each contract type, and for each time period
studied, using a binomial sign test. For each day of the week, the number of
positive and negative returns is computed. A z-statistic is computed to test the
null hypothesis that positive and negative returns are equally likely events.
      The results of the nonparametric procedures generally support our previous
conclusions. In particular, indication of a negative Monday effect in GNMA and
T-bond contracts is found again. Using close to close prices, negative Monday
returns are significantly more frequent (at the 0.01 level) for both GNMA and
T-bond contracts, but only during the sample period prior to January 1981. Thus,
our previous conclusion holds up: a negative Monday seasonal is present in re?
turns on GNMA and T-bond contracts, which is confined to the earlier period of
the data.15 At the same time, there is additional evidence of a positive, Tuesday
effect in returns on GNMA and T-bond contracts during the period after Decem-
ber 1984. Positive Tuesday returns are significantly more frequent (at the 5-per-
cent level) for both GNMA and T-bond futures during the latter sample period.
The results concerning T-note contracts are less conclusive.         While the positive
Tuesday returns are observed more frequently on T-note contracts during the
post-December     1984 period, the z-statistic is not significant at the 0.05 level.16


IV.     Summary         and    Conclusions

       The results of this study provide a more comprehensive                 investigation of
      14Complete tabulationof month by month results for each contractis quite lengthy and, there?
fore, is not includedhere, however, complete results are availableon request.
      15We also should note that our nonparametricproceduresshow a significantnegative effect on
Wednesdayfor both GNMA and T-bond contracts. For GNMAs, this effect occurs duringthe latter
sampleperiod (afterDecember 1984). For T-bonds, the negative Wednesdayoccurs duringthe earli-
est sample period (before January 1981). Thus, they are not contemporaneousphenomena. More-
over, while our parametrictests also showed some indicationof negative Wednesdayseasonals, they
were not robustto more rigorousmultivariatetechniques.
      16Again, while complete tabulationsof our nonparametricresults are too lengthy to include
here, they are availableon request.



       This content downloaded from 128.210.126.199 on Wed, 10 Feb 2016 19:30:24 UTC
                        All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions
42   Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis


weekly seasonals in GNMA, T-bond, T-note, and T-bill futures returns than has
been done previously. Evidence is presented that, during the time period studied,
two distinct and significant seasonal patterns are present in returns on GNMA,
T-bond, and T-note futures returns. At the same time, no significant seasonals
are found in T-bill futures returns. We find this result to be significant in two
respects. First, it shows the seasonal patterns detected in GNMA, T-bond, and T-
note futures are not descriptive of financial futures contracts in general. More-
over, this result provides some direction as to factors of the contracts?e.g.,    in
the cash instrument involved or the exchange on which contracts are traded?
which may help identify the source of seasonality in asset returns. Second, we
note that seasonal patterns have already been established in the cash markets for
both T-bonds and for T-bills and, while we do find similar patterns in T-bond
futures, there is no corresponding     seasonal pattern in T-bill futures. This evi?
dence contradicts the notion that seasonal patterns in futures contracts are gener-
ally reflections of seasonal patterns in the underlying cash market.
      Our results concerning GNMA and T-bond futures contracts are generally
consistent with, but different from, the findings of previous studies. Using the
complete sample of close to close returns, we find negative seasonals are present
on Monday. This result is similar to that previously documented by Chiang and
Tapley (1983). On closer examination of the data, however, several additional
findings are obtained that provide a clearer and more complete explanation of the
patterns in returns on GNMA and T-bond contracts.
      Our evidence shows that the significance of seasonal phenomena in GNMA
and T-bond futures depends, in an important way, on the time period studied.
The negative Monday effect that has been reported for the variety of futures re?
turns studied by Chiang and Tapley (1983), Gay and Kim (1987), and Chang and
Kim (1988), generally pertain to the time period before 1982. Our results are
similar in that the negative Monday observed in GNMA and T-bond futures re?
turns occurs in the time period before January 1980. Since that time, however,
no evidence is found of a negative Monday seasonal in returns on either contract.
We do find, however, evidence of a positive seasonal on Tuesday in returns on
GNMA, T-bond, as well as T-note contracts. The positive Tuesday effect is ob?
served only during the latter sample period, after December 1984.
      As in recent studies of stocks and stock index returns, we find the negative
Monday seasonal in GNMA and T-bond futures returns to be associated with the
weekend and not with other closings such as holidays. These remarkably similar
results suggest that the negative Monday effects observed in both stock and fu?
tures markets might be due to some common characteristics of market organiza-
tion. However, two additional findings are at odds with such a simple conclu-
sion. First, previous research has demonstrated that (in recent years) the negative
Monday seasonal associated with stock returns and with index futures actually
occurs during nontrading hours over the weekend. An analysis of intraday re?
turns in this study shows that the negative seasonal in GNMA and T-bond futures
actually occurs during trading hours on Monday. Additionally, we find no nega?
tive Monday effect to exist in returns on T-note or T-bill contracts.
      Finally, the study reveals that the observed seasonal patterns in GNMA,
T-bond, and T-note contracts are more complex than previously believed. We



      This content downloaded from 128.210.126.199 on Wed, 10 Feb 2016 19:30:24 UTC
                       All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions
                                                Johnston,   Kracaw, and McConnell       43


find that the observed seasonal effects occur only during months prior to a deliv?
ery month. Moreover, the negative Monday effect observed on GNMA and T-
bond contracts is concentrated in the month of February. The positive Tuesday
effect observed on GNMA, T-bond, and T-note contracts is concentrated in the
month of May. These results pertain not only to nearby contracts, but also to
contracts with more distant settlements. Thus, seasonal patterns in these con?
tracts are not due to approaching settlement. Rather, these phenomena appear to
be related in some way to the delivery cycle itself, or to particular months of the
year.




        This content downloaded from 128.210.126.199 on Wed, 10 Feb 2016 19:30:24 UTC
                         All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions
44   Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis


References

Chang, E. "Returnsto Speculatorsand the Theory of Normal Backwardation."Journal ofFinance,
  40(Marchl985), 193-208.
Chang, E., and C. Kim. "Day of the Week Effects and Commodity Price Changes." Journal of
  FuturesMarkets, 8 (April 1988), 229-241.
Chiang, R., and C. Tapley. "Day-of-the-Week Effects and the FuturesMarket."Reviewof Research
  in FuturesMarkets,2 (No. 3, 1983), 356-410.
Connolly, R. "An Examinationof the Robustnessof the Weekend Effect." Journalof Financial and
  QuantitativeAnalysis, 24 (June 1989), 133-169.
Cornell, B. "The Weekly Patternin Stock Returns:Cash versus Futures:A Note." Journal ofFi?
  nance, 40 (June 1985), 583-588.
_"Monetary                         Policy and the Daily Behaviorof InterestRates.'' JournalofEco-
  nomicsand Business, 56(Spring 1983), 189-203.
Dyl, E., and E. Maberly. "The Weekly Patternin Stock Index Futures:A FurtherNote." Journal of
  Finance, 41 (Dec. 1986), 1149-1155.
Eisemann, P., and S. Timme. "Interweek Seasonality in the Federal Funds Market." Journal of
  Financial Research, 1 (Spring 1984), 47-56.
Fama, E., and K. French. "Commodity FuturesPrices: Some Evidence on ForecastPower, Premi-
  ums, and the Theoryof Storage." Journal of Business, 60 (Jan. 1987), 55-73.
Flannery,M., and A. Protopapadakis."From T-Bills to Common Stocks: Investigatingthe Gener-
  ality of Intra-WeekReturnSeasonality." Journal ofFinance, 43 (June 1988), 431-450.
French, K. "Stock Returns and the Weekend Effect." Journal of Financial Economics, 8 (March
  1980), 55-69.
Garbade,K., and W. Silber. "FuturesContractson Commoditieswith MultipleVarieties:An Analy?
  sis of Premiumsand Discounts." Journal of Business, 56 (July 1983), 249-271.
Gay, G., andT. Kim. "An Investigationinto Seasonalityin the FuturesMarket."Journalof Futures
  Markets,1 (April 1987), 169-181.
Gay, G., and S. Manaster."The QualityOptionImplicitin FuturesContracts."Journalof Financial
  Economics, 13 (Sept. 1984), 353-370.
Gibbons, M., and P. Hess. "Day of the Week Effects and Asset Returns." Journal of Business, 54
  (Oct. 1981), 579-596.
Harris,L. "A TransactionData Study of Weekly and IntradailyPatternsin Stock Returns." Journal
  of Financial Economics, 16 (May 1986), 99-117.
Jaffee, J., and R. Westerfield. "The Weekend Effect in Common Stock Returns:The International
  Evidence." Journal ofFinance, 40 (June 1985), 433-454.
Johnston, E. "Pricing Financial Futures:The Role of Multiple Delivery Assets and Prepayments."
  Unpubl. Ph.D. diss. PurdueUniv. (1986).
Kane, A., and A. Marcus. "Valuation and OptimalExercise of the Wild CardOptionin the Treasury
  Bond FuturesMarket." Journal ofFinance, 41 (March 1986a), 195-208.
_"The                         Quality Option in the TreasuryBond FuturesMarket:An Empirical
  Assessment." Journal of FuturesMarkets, 6 (Summer 1986b), 231-248.
Keim, D., and R. Stambaugh. "A FurtherInvestigationof the Weekend Effect in Stock Returns."
  JournalofFinance, 39 (July 1984), 813-834.
Lakonishok,J., and M. Levi. "Weekend Effects on Stock Returns:A Note." JournalofFinance, 37
  (June 1982), 883-889.
McFarland,J.; R. Pettit;and S. Sung. "The Distributionof ForeignExchangePrice Changes:Trad?
  ing Days Effects and Risk Measurement."Journal ofFinance, 37 (June 1982), 693-716.
Rogalski, R. R. "New Findings RegardingDay of the Week Returnsover Tradingand Non-Trading
  Periods." Journal ofFinance, 39 (Dec. 1984), 1603-1614.
Smirlock, M., and L. Starks. "Day-of-the-Week and IntradayEffects in Stock Returns." Journal of
  Financial Economics, 17 (Sept. 1986), 197-210.




       This content downloaded from 128.210.126.199 on Wed, 10 Feb 2016 19:30:24 UTC
                        All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions
