The information content of aggregate data on financial
futures positions
By Caroline Mogford of the Bank’s Sterling Markets Division and Darren Pain of the Bank’s
Foreign Exchange Division.
This article uses statistical analysis to investigate the strength of any empirical relationships between
data on speculative financial futures positions and movements in asset prices. It finds strong evidence
that speculative positions do indeed tend to move closely with changes in the underlying asset prices.
But there is little support for the view that these positions data systematically inform about future
changes in asset prices.

Introduction
A futures contract is a binding agreement between a
buyer and seller to receive (in the case of a long
position) or deliver (in the case of a short position) a
commodity or financial instrument sometime in the
future, but at a price that is agreed upon today. Futures
trades take place through a centralised exchange.(1)
Customers who trade futures are required to deposit
cash or acceptable securities with the exchange — the
so-called initial margin. In doing so, they have an
incentive to honour their financial commitments and
cover any obligations which might arise out of their
trading activities. Given the margin deposits, the
exchange clearing house will act as the buyer to the
seller and the seller to the buyer in every transaction,
thereby guaranteeing performance and reducing
counterparty risk.
US futures markets are regulated federally by the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), which
is responsible for ensuring that prices and outstanding
positions are communicated to the public. The CFTC
provides the most comprehensive positions data on
exchange-traded futures which are watched by a sizable
share of market participants. In particular, the data
from the CFTC’s Commitments of Traders Report (COTR)
on speculative positioning is sometimes used by analysts
and commentators as an indicator of the future
direction of prices in asset markets. For example,
extreme net short speculative positions are sometimes
thought to signal an imminent rebound in the relevant

currency, while extreme net long positions can suggest a
currency has already appreciated a great deal and may
be poised for a downward correction.(2) Is there any
statistical evidence to support such views? More
generally, what is the information content of the COTR
positioning data about movements in financial asset
prices?
The purpose of this article is to examine the empirical
links between changes in aggregate reported futures
positions and changes in prices in a variety of asset
markets. More specifically, it undertakes a basic
statistical investigation of the relationships between
changes in futures positions and changes in the
corresponding underlying asset price. Among these, a
particular focus is whether changes to futures positions
have any leading indicator properties over asset prices,
particularly those associated with the accumulation of
large aggregate futures positions.

Some background
Traditional models of asset prices, and in particular
exchange rates, are based on publicly available
macroeconomic information. In such models,
incremental information cannot be conveyed by trading
because public information is already incorporated in
the price (see Evans and Lyons (2001)). However, in
recent years a body of literature has been developed that
has sought to relax the strong assumption that all
price-relevant information is available publicly and has
instead stressed the importance of the process by which

(1) In contrast, forward contracts are traded off-exchange or ‘over-the-counter’ with market-making intermediaries.
(2) According to Business Reuters on 23 April 2004, ‘…extreme net-long speculative positions often signal a decline in a
currency, especially if that position conflicts with the positioning of the more influential commercial players’.

57

Bank of England Quarterly Bulletin: Spring 2006

dispersed information becomes widely known to the
market. In particular, a number of authors have
examined how order-flows (the number of buyers
bidding less than the number of sellers offering) can
help to explain and predict short-term movements in
exchange rates.(1) The rationale is that order-flows can
convey dispersed information about the fundamental
determinants of exchange rates — for example news
about relative macroeconomic conditions in different
countries, changes in investors’ risk aversion or hedging
technologies etc — that currency markets need to
aggregate and which should affect but may not yet be
embodied in the current exchange rate.
Cast in this light, the data on futures positions may
potentially offer incremental information about asset
price developments, because they reveal to the market
information about the disparate views of traders and
their demands for the particular underlying asset. From
an investor’s perspective, if knowledge about the overall
market position is informative about likely future
developments, it could be useful in identifying
profitable trading opportunities — especially if
combined with proprietary information about their own
positions or those of the more influential commercial
players.
Knowledge of aggregate market positions data might
also be useful from a policy perspective. Asset price
developments can be an important element of the
monetary policy transmission mechanism. In analysing
the policy implications of asset price changes, it is
important to assess the reasons behind any change. But
if it could be shown that aggregate positions data are
informative about potential movements in asset prices,
they might be useful indicator variables which
policymakers could use to assess possible future
developments in asset markets and the macroeconomy
more generally.
Aggregate data on positioning might also help to assess
prospective financial stability conditions. In particular,
some past episodes of financial market instability have
been associated with the build-up and subsequent
unwinding of speculative positions. An example of this
is the sharp decline of the dollar against the yen in
October 1998. The combination of an appreciating

dollar and the large interest rate differential between
Japan and the United States during the first half of 1998
prompted many market participants to establish similar
positions by borrowing yen and buying dollar assets.
This so-called ‘yen-carry’ trade was very common among
hedge funds, proprietary trading desks of investment
banks and even treasury departments of large
corporations. The unwinding of this ‘yen-carry’ trade
began following the Russian debt default in August 1998
and was exacerbated by stop-loss orders, the
cancellation of barrier options(2) and associated hedging
positions by dealers. Monitoring speculative positions
may possibly be useful in spotting potential
vulnerabilities in financial markets that could lead to
this sort of dynamics in financial markets.

The COTR data
The COTR provides a breakdown of positions in futures
for markets traded on a number of exchanges, including
the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME).(3) The
positioning data are published every Friday, and refer to
positions held at the close of business on the preceding
Tuesday. The COTR provides positions figures for the
futures markets for traders holding positions equal to or
above the reporting levels established by the CFTC.
Other flow and survey data publicly provided by
individual investment banks or custodians are not as
comprehensive and may be subject to sampling or
response bias and are therefore not included in this
analysis.
The COTR data contain the long and short futures
positions held in a variety of markets. The net position
in a future can be defined as the total number of long
less short positions for a particular group of
participants. Every futures contract has both a buyer
(who is long) and a seller (who is short) so the net
positions must sum to zero across all traders, although
not for different subgroups.
The COTR separates those positions held by commercial
and non-commercial traders. This distinction is based
on how firms identify themselves to the exchanges,
although the exchanges monitor the behaviour of firms
to confirm their self-designation. Commercial positions
are often transactions of firms that use futures to hedge

(1) See, for example, Evans and Lyons (2001 and 2002), Fan and Lyons (2003), Lyons (2001) and Dominguez and
Panthaki (2005).
(2) A barrier option is a type of financial option where the option to exercise depends on the price of the underlying
asset crossing or reaching a given barrier level.
(3) The International Money Market (IMM), a division of the CME, was established in 1972 for the trading of seven
currency futures contracts. Financial futures markets have since expanded, and the markets analysed in this article,
including the IMM, represent a small subsample of the markets regulated by the CFTC.

58

The information content of aggregate data on financial futures positions

their business operations, but also include transactions
of dealers that are not necessarily in the market to
hedge or speculate. Non-commercial data are
generally interpreted as reflecting the speculative
community’s positioning, although some authors have
previously questioned this interpretation. For example,
Sanders, Boris and Manfredo (2004) maintain that,
because position limits are placed on non-commercial
investors, there may be some incentive for traders to
self-classify as commercials. And as commercial firms’
true cash positions are unknown, it is possible that some
of their positions could be speculative in nature.
Nonetheless, Sanders et al suggest that ‘reporting
non-commercials most likely represent a relatively pure
subset of total speculative positions’ and, in particular,
they may be considered a reasonable indicator of how
the large commodity trading advisors (CTAs) are
positioned.(1)
Futures positions are available from the CFTC for a large
number of currencies, although this article only
considers the seven major currencies for which futures
contracts are traded on the CME: euro, sterling, yen,
Canadian dollars, Swiss francs, Mexican pesos and
Australian dollars. Positions in each currency are
typically given against the US dollar. In addition, this
article also investigates a selection of other markets
traded on the CME: interest rate markets (Libor,
eurodollar and US Treasury notes), equity indices
(S&P 500, Nasdaq and Nikkei) and oil futures (NYMEX).
Weekly net speculative positions for all these markets
are calculated from COTR data.(2)

Chart 1
Net long speculative futures positions in all seven
currencies (against the dollar) and the dollar ERI
Number of contracts

300,000

Index: 1990 = 100
80

250,000

85

Net long speculative futures positions
(left-hand scale)

200,000

90

150,000
95
100,000
100
50,000

+

105

0

–
50,000
100,000

110
US dollar ERI
(right-hand scale, inverted)
Jan. Apr. July Oct. Jan. Apr. July Oct. Jan. Apr. July Oct. Jan.
2003

04

05

115

06

Sources: Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Bank calculations.

Chart 2
Net long speculative positions in sterling (against
the dollar) and the sterling-dollar exchange rate
50,000

$ per £

Number of contracts

40,000

2.00
Net long speculative futures positions
(left-hand scale)

1.95
1.90

30,000

1.85

20,000

1.80
10,000

+

1.75

0

–

1.70

10,000
20,000

1.65
Sterling-dollar exchange rate
(right-hand scale)

30,000
40,000

1.60
1.55

Jan. Apr. July Oct. Jan. Apr. July Oct. Jan. Apr. July Oct. Jan.
2003
04
05
06

1.50

Sources: Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Bank calculations.

Empirical analysis
The box on page 60 outlines some possible theoretical
links between movements in asset prices and positioning
in futures. A casual review of the empirical data also
indicates that there may be a relationship between the
strength of a currency and the number of net long
speculative positions in that currency. Chart 1 shows
total net long speculative positions in the seven
available currencies (against the US dollar), plotted
against the dollar ERI. And Chart 2 shows net long
speculative positions in sterling against the
sterling-dollar exchange rate. A general build-up in long
(short) positions would seem to be associated with an
appreciation (depreciation) in the exchange rate. But

more formal statistical analysis can be used to uncover
the strength of any relationship and more generally the
information content of the COTR data for markets other
than foreign currency.
In order to investigate this issue, we consider four
empirical questions. First, we investigate whether there
is any contemporaneous relationship between changes
in speculative positions and changes in asset prices, and
whether the strength of this relationship varies between
asset markets. Second, we examine whether changes in
net speculative positions precede changes in asset prices.
Third, we consider whether extreme net speculative

(1) A CTA is an individual or firm which advises others about buying and selling futures and/or futures options and
manages associated trades for its clients or on its own behalf.
(2) The data have been published at a weekly frequency since 1993 (with the exceptions of the euro (from 1999), the
Mexican peso (from 1995), the US Treasury bills (from 1997), the S&P 500 (from 1997) and the Nasdaq (from 1996)).

59

Bank of England Quarterly Bulletin: Spring 2006

Possible links between futures positions and movements in asset prices in spot markets
In the spot or ‘cash’ market, financial assets are
traded for immediate delivery at the prevailing
price. This differs from a futures market, where
the delivery will be made at a future date. Futures
contracts are traded on an exchange, have
standardised features and provide a mechanism
that gives both parties some form of guarantee
that the contract will be honoured.
Figure 1 outlines the possible interactions
between the spot and futures markets. There are
a number of reasons why changes in net
speculative futures positions might be associated
with changes in the underlying spot price. First,
the views of the main players in the speculative
futures community may closely correspond to
those of the main players in spot markets. That is,
investors take similar directional positions in
either ‘cash’ or futures markets. In fact, it is likely
that some speculators are involved in both futures
and spot markets. Market news may influence
both futures speculators’ adjustments to the
number of futures positions they hold and spot
market participants’ views of how the asset price
will move.
Figure 1
Possible interaction between changes to net
speculative positions and asset prices
Futures
speculators

Long/short

Futures
exchange

Views may correspond/
May be the same people

Short/long

Commercial
traders

If hedging
Long/short

Spot market
speculators

Long/short

Spot
market

A second possible explanation stems from the fact
that aggregate net speculative positions in the
futures market are taken against commercial
investors: either firms with hedging requirements
or traders. When speculative positions are taken
against commercial traders, the traders may
hedge their positions in the cash market. This
could cause movements in speculative positions

60

to correlate with moves in asset prices. For
example, an increase in net speculative positions
will correspond to a decrease in net commercial
traders’ positions. The commercial traders may
then hedge this position by buying the asset in
the spot market, which might lead to an increase
in the asset price.
Another reason for a positive relationship
between changes in net speculative positions and
changes in an asset price could be that
speculators tend to react to asset price
movements. If futures speculators trade on
‘trend-following’ models, they would go long
(short) after an asset price increases (decreases).
When weekly data are used, this should result in a
significant contemporaneous relationship. But, if
markets were fully efficient, such trend-following
behaviour would not be profitable as movements
in the asset price should contain no information
about future changes in the asset price.
None of these hypotheses necessarily imply the
existence of leading indicator relationships in
either direction between changes in net
speculative positions and changes in the asset
price. However, it is possible that the interaction
between spot and futures markets takes some time
to work through, so that the transactions in one
market have a lagged impact on the other. Such
dynamic effects could relate to the perceived
asymmetry of information. Large traders in
financial markets may be considered to be
relatively well informed about financial markets.
Adjustments in their positions could therefore be
used as a signal for other traders in the market to
adjust their positions, and so may precede
changes in asset prices. Another reason why spot
and futures positions may be dynamically related
is that traders with positions in futures may
choose to close out or hedge those positions
using the spot market at a later date. For
example, a trader who is short may choose to
close out his exposure by buying the security in
the cash market (so called ‘short-covering’).

The information content of aggregate data on financial futures positions

positions tend to precede changes in the exchange rate.
And finally, using information from options prices, the
article assesses whether the views of option speculators
tend to correspond to the views of speculators in futures
markets.
Do net speculative positions and asset prices tend to
move together?
Klitgaard (2004) analysed weekly net speculative COTR
foreign exchange data between 1993 and 2004. He
found a strong contemporaneous relationship between
weekly changes in speculators’ net positions and
exchange rate moves. This article adopts a similar
approach for the seven currencies considered, but also
extends the analysis to include oil, interest rate and
equity markets.
Table A shows the percentage of weeks between
January 1993 and January 2006 in which changes in net
speculative positions and percentage changes in asset
prices moved in the same direction for the markets
under investigation. If there were no contemporaneous
relationships between changes in speculative futures
positions and changes in asset prices, the two variables
would be expected to move together approximately half
of the time. This hypothesis can be evaluated using a
simple statistical test. Markets for which the percentage
Table A
Percentage of weeks that changes in speculative
positions move in the same direction as the asset price,
for all asset markets under investigation
(Jan. 1993 – Jan. 2006)(a)
Asset market
Euro — US dollar
Sterling — US dollar
Yen — US dollar
Canadian dollar — US dollar
Swiss franc — US dollar
Mexican peso — US dollar
Australian dollar — US dollar
Oil
Two-year US Treasury yields(c)
Five-year US Treasury yields(c)
Ten-year US Treasury yields(c)
Libor(c)
Eurodollar(c)
S&P 500
Nasdaq
Nikkei

Percentage (p-value)(b)
69% (0.00)
71% (0.00)
74% (0.00)
69% (0.00)
74% (0.00)
67% (0.00)
68% (0.00)
71% (0.00)
46% (0.07)
43% (0.00)
45% (0.03)
47% (0.20)
50% (0.94)
56% (0.00)
54% (0.09)
52% (0.34)

(a) Start dates differ across markets.
(b) Based on a two-tailed z-test or t-test of the null hypothesis that percentage is
equal to 50%. Where the null can be rejected at the 5% significant level, the
result is shown in bold.
(c) Test was constructed using yields rather than prices and hence the statistic
might be expected to be less than 50%.

is significantly different from 50% at the 5% level are
shown in bold in the table.
In fact, at the 5% significance level, the null hypothesis
of zero contemporaneous correlation was rejected for all
seven currencies, the oil market and the S&P 500 and
long-maturity US dollar government bond yields. For
most of these markets, changes in the asset price and
changes in the net speculative positions tended to move
together significantly more than 50% of the time.
Do changes in net speculative futures positions lead
moves in asset prices?
To investigate whether either variable has any predictive
power over the other, we use Granger-causality tests.(1)
In simple terms, Granger causality measures whether
one thing happens before another thing and can help to
predict it. More formally, pair-wise Granger-causality
tests assess whether a variable (X) can be used to
forecast movements in another variable (Y) over and
above simply using past values of Y. Thus, in the current
investigation, these tests can be used to assess
(i) whether past values of net speculative positions have
any predictive power over moves in an asset price,
beyond using past values of asset prices alone, and
conversely (ii) whether past asset price movements can
inform about future speculative positions, over and
above past movements in futures positions. If
movements in speculative positions provide incremental
information about future movements in an asset price,
then they can be said to ‘Granger cause’ that asset price
and vice versa.
Table B shows the results of Granger-causality tests for
all markets. For most futures contracts, there was no
significant evidence that movements in speculative
positions either lead or lag changes in the (spot) asset
prices. Indeed, if anything, it is more likely that
movements in asset prices ‘Granger caused’ movements
in futures positions. Arguably, changes in net
speculative positions do seem to have preceded moves in
the ten-year US Treasury and the euro-dollar exchange
rate.(2) But it may be that these statistically significant
results reflect no more than the random variation in the
detectable leading indicator relationships across the
markets considered.(3)

(1) It should be stressed that these tests all use weekly data. It is quite possible that closer relationships exist over
different time horizons, but data availability limits such research.
(2) At face value, the existence of leading indicator relationships in any of the asset markets could perhaps suggest
profit-making opportunities. However, the CFTC data are released three days after the date to which they refer. It is
not clear therefore that investors could in practice profit from knowledge of the CFTC data even if after the event, it
were found to be useful in anticipating asset price changes.
(3) Put another way, a joint test of Granger causality across markets might show little evidence of leading indicator
relationships even though they could be marginally statistically significant in a few markets.

61

Bank of England Quarterly Bulletin: Spring 2006

Table B
Results of Granger-causality tests(a) between changes in
net speculative positions and changes in the underlying
asset price (Jan. 1993 – Jan. 2006)(b)
Asset market

p-value of test:(c) changes
in speculative positions
precede changes in
asset price

p-value of test:(c) changes
in asset prices precede
changes in speculative
positions

0.05
0.42
0.90
0.12
0.88
0.50
0.06
0.24
0.81
0.77
0.05
0.78
0.40
0.64
0.29
0.97

0.06
0.00
0.06
0.01
0.00
0.77
0.00
0.01
0.99
0.02
0.17
0.64
0.58
0.71
0.92
0.49

Euro
Sterling
Yen
Canadian dollar
Swiss franc
Mexican peso
Australian dollar
Oil
Two-year US Treasury
Five-year US Treasury
Ten-year US Treasury
Libor
Eurodollar
S&P 500
Nasdaq
Nikkei

(a) Formally, the different possible Granger-causal relations between assets prices (S) and
speculative futures positions (F) can be expressed using the parameters of equations:
n

St =
Ft =

n

∑α S + ∑ β F
i t −i

i t −i

i =1

i =1

n

n

∑γ F + ∑δ S
i t −i

i =1

i t −i

(1)

Table C
Percentage of weeks in which an extreme position
(against the dollar) preceded an inverse move in the
exchange rate (Jan. 1993 – Jan. 2006)(a)
Currency
Euro
Sterling
Yen
Canadian dollar
Swiss franc
Mexican peso
Australian dollar

One standard
deviation (p-value)(b)
45% (0.28)
55% (0.12)
46% (0.23)
49% (0.63)
51% (0.75)
48% (0.42)
47% (0.33)

Two standard
deviations (p-value)(b)
48%(c)
51% (0.88)
60% (0.15)
41% (0.16)
54% (0.65)
54% (0.59)
38% (0.05)

(a) Start dates differ across markets.
(b) Based on a two-tailed z-test or t-test of the null hypothesis that percentage is equal to
50%. Where the null can be rejected at the 5% significant level, the result is shown in
bold.
(c) Too few observations to make test reliable.

(2)

i =1

There is Granger causality from futures positions to asset prices if βi ≠ 0 and δi = 0 for
all i. Similarly, there is causality from asset prices to futures positions if βi = 0 and δi ≠ 0
for all i. The causality is considered as mutual if βi ≠ 0 and δi ≠ 0 for all i. Finally, there is
no link between asset price movements and futures positions if βi = 0 and δi = 0 for all i.
(b) Start dates differ across markets.
(c) Result of an F-test of coefficient significance; 2 lags used (n = 2). Where the coefficients
are significantly different from zero, the result is shown in bold. Tests with shorter and
longer lags produced broadly similar results.

Do extreme net speculative positions precede changes in
the exchange rate?
Some foreign exchange market contacts have reported
that their main interest in the net speculative position
data is when positions are unusually large or small.
The rationale behind this view is that extreme
positions are unlikely to persist. This suggests that there
could be an inverse relationship between the sign of an
extreme position and future changes in the exchange
rate.
One way to investigate this is to ascertain whether
currencies tend to increase (decrease) in value, ie
appreciate (depreciate), the week after net speculative
positions are extremely low (high). For the purposes of
this article, extreme is defined as outside the range of a
52-week rolling mean plus or minus either one or two
standard deviations.
Table C shows the percentage of weeks when extreme
speculative positions preceded an inverse move in the
relevant exchange rate. Overall, the results provide little
support for the existence of a systematic relationship of
this nature in any of the foreign exchange markets.
Co-movements between extreme changes in net
positions (those at least one standard deviation larger or
62

smaller than the average weekly position over the
sample) and subsequent exchange rate moves were not
statistically significant (at the 5% level) over the sample
period.

Do speculators in options and futures tend to have
similar views?
One way of quantifying changes in the views of options
purchasers is by considering changes in risk reversals.
Risk reversals are a combination of call options on a
particular asset (instruments that give an investor the
right but not the obligation to buy an asset at a
specified price within a specific time period) and put
options (instruments that enable the investor to sell an
asset on pre-agreed terms). They are commonly traded
in foreign exchange options markets and the market
price of the risk reversal can be interpreted as a
reflection of market participants’ views on the balance of
risks to an exchange rate. According to market
convention, risk reversals are typically expressed so that
a positive number indicates that calls are preferred to
puts and that the market assesses an appreciation in the
underlying currency is more likely than a depreciation.
Likewise, a negative number indicates that puts are
preferred to calls and that the market perceives a greater
risk of a depreciation in the underlying currency than
an appreciation.
If risk reversals and net speculative positions in a
particular currency pair moved in the same direction,
this could suggest that options and futures speculators
had similar views regarding the balance of risks to future
exchange rate moves. But it should be noted that market
participants other than speculators use options (for
example for hedging), so changes to risk reversals are
not a perfect indicator of changes to the views of
options speculators.

The information content of aggregate data on financial futures positions

The contemporaneous relationship between net
speculative positions and risk reversals was investigated
for sterling, euro and yen.(1) Table D shows the
percentage of weeks in which speculative positions and
risk reversals moved in the same direction for these
currencies. Over the period considered, net speculative
positions and the corresponding exchange rates moved
in the same direction significantly more than 50% of the
time for all three currencies against the dollar. This
indicates that there may be a relationship between the
views of futures speculators regarding potential
exchange rate changes and those of purchasers of
options.
Table D
Percentage of weeks that risk reversals and net
speculative positions move in the same directions
(Aug. 2001 – Jan. 2006)
Currency
Sterling
Euro
Yen

Percentage (p-value)(a)
66% (0.00)
68% (0.00)
73% (0.00)

(a) Based on a two-tailed z-test or t-test of the null hypothesis that percentage is equal to
50%. Where the null can be rejected at the 5% significant level, the result is shown in
bold.

To consider the dynamic relationship between
speculative positions and risk reversals, Table E details
the results of Granger-causality tests for the two
variables. On the basis of this test, there is some
evidence that risk reversals preceded changes in net
euro speculative positions. That is, changes in risk
reversals may provide information about future changes
in net speculative positions.
Table E
Results of Granger-causality tests(a) between changes in
net speculative positions and changes in risk reversals
(Aug. 2001 – Jan. 2006)(b)
Currency

p-value of test:(b) changes
in speculative positions
precede changes in risk
reversals

p-value of test:(b) changes
in risk reversals precede
changes in speculative
positions

Euro
Sterling
Yen

0.26
0.85
0.18

0.04
0.04
0.01

(a) See footnotes on Table C for an explanation of Granger causality.
(b) Result of an F-test of coefficient significance; 2 lags used (i = 2). Where the coefficients
are significantly different from zero, the result is shown in bold. Tests with shorter and
longer lags produced broadly similar results.

These results for the risk reversal data raise the question
as to whether changes in risk reversals, unlike
speculative positions data, precede changes in exchange
rates. Indeed, comments by contacts in the foreign
exchange market suggest that they tend to concentrate

more on risk reversals than COTR data, not least
because they are more frequently available.
However, the results of Granger-causality tests (shown in
Table F) do not indicate a strong relationship between
movements in risk reversals and subsequent changes in
currency rates. If anything, over the sample period,
changes in the euro-dollar exchange rate have tended to
precede movements in risk reversals. Moreover, other
studies have highlighted that any empirical association
between risk reversals and spot exchange rates may not
be particularly straightforward to interpret. In
particular, Campa, Chang and Reider (1997) found
evidence of a strong positive correlation between the
level of the spot exchange rate and risk reversals — the
stronger the currency, the greater the risk of a large
appreciation of that currency. This contrasts with the
general market view that risk reversals and spot rate are
negatively correlated: large falls in exchange rates are
assigned a greater probability of occurring when the
spot rate has previously appreciated significantly and is
therefore relatively strong.
Table F
Results of Granger-causality tests(a) between changes
in risk reversals and changes in exchange rates
(Aug. 2001 – Jan. 2006)(b)
Currency

p-value of test:(b) changes
in exchange rates precede
changes in risk reversals

p-value of test:(b) changes
in risk reversals precede
changes in exchange rates

Euro
Sterling
Yen

0.01
0.87
0.06

0.43
0.23
0.09

(a) See footnotes on Table C for an explanation of Granger causality.
(b) Result of an F-test of coefficient significance; 2 lags used (i = 2). Where the coefficients
are significantly different from zero, the result is shown in bold. Tests with shorter and
longer lags produced broadly similar results.

Concluding remarks
Overall, the statistical results reported in this article
suggest that a strong contemporaneous relationship
exists between weekly changes in net speculative
positions and changes in exchange rates and oil prices,
although this is less true for interest rate and equity
markets. One possible explanation is that speculators in
foreign exchange and commodity markets may tend to
follow trends. It could also be the case that significant
market news could move both the futures and spot
markets, resulting in a close association between
developments in the two markets. Another potential
explanation is that commercial traders may choose to
simultaneously hedge their futures positions in the spot
market.

(1) One-month risk reversals were used in this analysis since they should reflect market participants’ near-term views, and
the underlying options are reasonably liquid.

63

Bank of England Quarterly Bulletin: Spring 2006

However, the empirical results lend little support to the
view that the COTR speculative positioning data are
systematically informative about future changes in asset
prices. There is little evidence that changes in
non-commercial positions have significant predictive
power regarding asset prices. And at least over the
sample of currencies and the period considered, there
would appear to be little statistical evidence to

64

corroborate the market anecdote that extreme
speculative positions systematically precede inverse
moves in the major exchange rates. This could be
because the publication of these aggregate data does
not provide incremental information about the
underlying determinants of asset prices. Put another
way, asset prices tend to move as soon as the data are
released to reflect any news in these data.

The information content of aggregate data on financial futures positions

References

Campa, J, Chang, P and Reider, R (1997), ‘Implied exchange rate distributions: evidence from OTC options markets’,
NBER Working Paper no. 6179.
Dominguez, K and Panthaki, F (2005), ‘What defines ‘news’ in foreign exchange markets?’, NBER Working Paper
no. 11769.
Evans, M and Lyons, R (2001), ‘Why order flow explains exchange rates’, mimeo, Haas School of Business, UC Berkeley.
Evans, M and Lyons, R (2002), ‘Order flow and exchange rate dynamics’, Journal of Political Economy, February,
pages 170–80.
Fan, M and Lyons, R (2003), ‘Customer trades and extreme events in foreign exchange’, published in Monetary history,
exchange rates and financial markets: essays in honour of Charles Goodhart, Paul Mizen (ed), Edward Elgar: Northampton,
MA, USA, pages 160–79.
Klitgaard, T (2004), ‘Exchange rate changes and net positions of speculators in the futures market’, Federal Reserve Bank
of New York Economic Policy Review, May.
Lyons, R (2001), ‘Foreign exchange: macro puzzles, micro tools’, Economic Review 2002, Federal Reserve Bank of
San Francisco, pages 51–69.
Sanders, D, Boris, K and Manfredo, M (2004), ‘Hedgers, funds, and small speculators in the energy futures markets:
an analysis of the CFTC’s Commitments of Traders reports’, Energy Economics, Vol. 26, Issue 3, pages 425–45.

65

