Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
International Finance Discussion Papers
Number 1093r
This Version: May 2016
Original Version: November 2013

Surprise and Uncertainty Indexes:
Real-Time Aggregation of Real-Activity Macro Surprises

Chiara Scotti

NOTE: International Finance Discussion Papers are preliminary materials circulated to stimulate
discussion and critical comment. References in publications to International Finance Discussion Papers
(other than an acknowledgment that the writer has had access to unpublished material) should be cleared
with the author or authors. Recent IFDPs are available on the Web at www.federalreserve.gov/pubs/ifdp/.
This paper can be downloaded without charge from Social Science Research Network electronic library at
http://www.ssrn.com/.

Surprise and Uncertainty Indexes:
Real-time Aggregation of Real-Activity Macro Surprises
Chiara Scotti
Federal Reserve Board

Abstract
I construct two daily, real-time, real activity indexes for the United States,
Euro area, the United Kingdom, Canada, and Japan: (i) a surprise index that
summarizes recent economic data surprises and measures optimism/pessimism
about the state of the economy, and (ii) an uncertainty index that measures
uncertainty related to the state of the economy. The surprise index preserves the
properties of the underlying series in affecting asset prices, with the advantage
of being a parsimonious summary measure of real-activity surprises. For the
United States, the real-activity uncertainty index is compared to other proxies
commonly used to measure uncertainty to show that when uncertainty is strictly
related to real activity, it has a potentially milder impact on economic activity
than when it also relates to the financial sector.
Keywords: Business cycle, Dynamic factor model, State space model,
Forecasting weights
JEL: C38, E32

Email address: chiara.scotti@frb.gov I would like to thank for their useful
comments Boragan Aruoba, David Bowman, Celso Brunetti, Domenico Giannone,
Raffaella Giacomini, Rob Martin, Andrew Patton, Barbara Rossi, Jonathan Wright,
Clara Vega as well as anonymous referees and various participants of conferences
and seminars: 2012 Computing in Economics and Finance; 2012 European Meeting of
the Econometric Society; 2012 Conference on Real-Time Data Analysis, Methods, and
Applications at the Philadelphia Fed; 2012 NBER-NSF Time Series Conference; Third
IFO conference on Macroeconomics and Survey Data; 2013 Econometric Society
Australasian Meeting; Dallas Fed Conference on The Causes and Macroeconomic
Consequences of Uncertainty; Boston College; and Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System. For outstanding research assistance I thank Rebecca
DeSimone, Eric English, Olivia Kim, and Margaret Yellen. The views expressed in
this paper are solely the responsibility of the author and should not be
interpreted as reflecting the view of the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System or of any other person associated with the Federal Reserve System.
(Chiara Scotti)

Preprint submitted to IFDP

May 16, 2016

1. Introduction
This paper proposes a new methodology to construct two real-time, real
activity indexes: (i) a surprise index that summarizes recent economic data
surprises and measures deviation from consensus expectations and (ii) an uncertainty index that measures uncertainty related to the state of the economy.
The indexes, on a given day, are weighted averages of the surprises or squared
surprises from a set of releases, where the weights depend on the contribution of
the associated real activity indicator to a business condition index à la Aruoba
et al. (2009). The surprise index measures whether agents are ex-post more
optimistic or pessimistic about the real economy than indicated by actual data
releases.1 A positive (negative) reading of the surprise index suggests that economic releases have on balance been higher (lower) than consensus, meaning
that agents were more pessimistic (optimistic) about the economy. The uncertainty index measures how uncertain agents are ex-post about current real
activity conditions. A greater (smaller) reading of the uncertainty index suggests that agents have on balance been more (less) uncertain about the state
of the economy. I apply this methodology to construct indexes for the United
States, Euro Area, the United Kingdom, Canada, Japan, and an aggregate of
the five countries over the 2003-2012 period.
The Aruoba, Diebold, and Scotti (ADS) index maintained by the Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia has proven to be a successful economic indicator
and as such it has been classified by the Wall Street Journal among the 50
economic indicators that really matter (Constable and Wright (2011)) and has
been added by Bloomberg to the data that can be followed in real time through
its platform (ADS BCI Index).2 The ADS index measures the state of the economy and serves as a summary statistic of the information market participants
have received thus far about real activity. However, in efficient markets, asset
prices react to new information. Thus it is important to measure the surprise
1 Ex-post optimism or pessimism differs from ex-ante optimism or pessimism. If we consider the weather, for example, the optimal, model-consistent forecast for the temperature
tomorrow could be 15 degrees Fahrenheit. I could be ex-ante optimistic and expect it to be 20
degrees Fahrenheit. If the forecast turns out to be wildly wrong, and the temperature turns
up at a toasty 25 degrees, I was still ex-ante optimistic, even though, ex-post, my forecast
looks pessimistic. Ex-post optimism or pessimism is neither necessary nor sufficient to say
anything about ex-ante beliefs. Another definition that I think captures well these measures
is realized optimism or pessimism.
2 http://www.philadelphiafed.org/research-and-data/real-time-center/business-conditionsindex/

2

component of the information that has just arrived and the uncertainty surrounding that information. To this end, the surprise index presented in this
paper aggregates the information contained in the surprises to construct a summary measure of the deviation of the real economy from consensus expectations,
and the uncertainty index quantifies economic uncertainty, which is otherwise
challenging to measure. The indexes are not competitors but complements to
the existing business condition indicators such as the ADS index and to existing
uncertainty indexes.
This paper relates to several branches of the literature. First and foremost
is the uncertainty literature, which has thrived in recent years. Because uncertainty is not observable, a number of proxies have been used to measure it, ranging from stock market realized and implied volatilities (Bloom (2009)), to the
cross-sectional dispersion of survey-based forecasts (Bachmann et al. (2013)),
the frequency of newspaper references to economic policy uncertainty (Baker
et al. (2015)), or the common variability in the purely unforecastable component of the future value of a big number of variables (Jurado et al. (2015)).
However, these measures tend to combine economic uncertainty with other notions. For example, stock return volatility combines information about stock
market volatility with economic uncertainty, and forecast disagreement could
measure divergence of opinions among forecasters rather than just the underlying uncertainty about the economy. My paper contributes to this literature by
providing a daily macroeconomic information uncertainty measure which quantifies the part of uncertainty that specifically relates to the state of the real
economy. It also contributes by helping to disentangle the impact of purely
macro uncertainty from more general uncertainty. The index is daily in that it
gets updated every time new information about the state of the economy gets
released. Second, this paper relates to those papers that study the impact of
news surprises on asset price such as Andersen et al. (2003), Andersen et al.
(2007), and Gilbert et al. (2012), and contributes to this literature by providing a parsimonious summary measure of real-activity macroeconomic surprises.
The paper also relates to papers that use similar factors models to extract a
business condition index (Aruoba et al. (2009), and Banbura et al. (2010) among
others). It also employs the idea of forecasting weights developed in Koopman
and Harvey (2003) and applied by Banbura and Runstler (2010) and Camacho
and Perez-Quiroz (2009), among others, to study the impact of news releases
on GDP forecast revisions.
In order to construct the surprise and uncertainty indexes, I first employ a
3

dynamic factor model to estimate monthly business condition indexes for the
aforementioned countries and compute the weights representing the contribution
of the economic indicators to these business condition indexes. I then use those
weights to average the surprises or squared surprises in order to construct the
surprise and the uncertainty indexes, respectively. The weights depend on (i)
the time elapsed since the release of the associated information and (ii) the
unbalancedness pattern of the underlying releases. The former is a time decay
feature that reduces the contribution of each surprise over time. The latter is
a missing data characteristic that sets to zero the contributions of an indicator
in months in which no data is available.
I find that surprise indexes tend to be negative during the recession associated with the 2008 financial crisis, the so-called Great Recession, suggesting
that agents were more optimistic about the real economy than it warranted.3
There appear to be other episodes when the indexes are negative. Of note are
several declines in the euro-area surprise index after 2011, the sharp drop in the
Japanese surprise index after the March 2011 earthquake, and the prolonged
low levels of the U.K. index in 2010 and 2011. On the other hand, there are
also several instances where the surprise indexes are positive, especially coming
out of the recession in the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada. I
show that the surprise index preserves the properties of the underlying series
in affecting asset prices, with the advantage of being a parsimonious summary
measure of real-activity surprises. In light of this, Demiralp et al. (2013) make
use of it as a control variable when investigating the effects of political commentaries on policy rate decisions and policy expectations in the United States and
the Euro Area, and find it to be significant determinant of policy expectations.
Similarly, Brunetti et al. (2013) employ it as a control variable in studying the
impact of speculation activity in the crude oil market.
The uncertainty indexes tend to be higher during recession periods. Interestingly, the euro-area uncertainty index reaches its highest values just before
and after the 2008-2009 recession, suggesting that agents were more uncertain
about the economy as the Euro Area was entering and exiting the recession. The
daily U.S. uncertainty index looks somewhat similar to the U.S. stock market
implied volatility as measured by the VIX. Implied volatility, a forward-looking
3 Unfortunately, we are not able to see whether this is a characteristic of all recessions
because the surprise indexes only start in 2003 and hence only cover one recession episode.
Expectation data are available from Bloomberg for all countries since 2003.

4

measure, is computed from option prices. The uncertainty index, a historical
measure, is calculated from current and past macroeconomic news surprises.
The former is a wider measure that combines information about risk aversion
and future stock market volatility/uncertainty, and to the extent that these two
move with news surprises, the VIX also contains information about current and
future economic uncertainty. Although understanding the exact linkages goes
beyond the scope of this paper, I also decompose the VIX following Bakaert
et al. (2013) into stock market uncertainty and variance risk premium, and observe that the VIX patterns are mainly driven by the Bakaert et al. (2013) stock
market uncertainty during the period analyzed.4
In a bivariate VAR exercise with employment and uncertainty proxies for
the United States over the last decade, I find that, when uncertainty is strictly
related to real activity as measured by the real-activity uncertainty index, it has
a potentially milder impact on economic activity. Just flipping the argument,
when uncertainty is more generally related to economic and financial conditions
as measured by the VIX or Bakaert et al. (2013) stock market uncertainty
proxy, its impact on real-activity variables seems to be stronger and faster.
This finding supports recent work by Caldara et al. (2013) which finds that the
financial channel is key in the transmission of uncertainty shocks. Of course,
the different impact could also be more generally due to the fact that the VIX
measures a more wide-ranging notion of uncertainty.
The surprise and uncertainty indexes tend to be negatively correlated, meaning that bad news occurs together with increased volatility.5 This result is
similar to the inverse relationship between first and second moments of asset returns found in the financial literature, a phenomenon that Fostel and Geanakoplos (2012) provide a theoretical explanation for, together with explaining a
decrease in leverage.
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows: section 2 presents the
data and the rationale behind using Bloomberg forecasts; section 3 presents
the details of the model’s forecasting weights and the construction of the surprise and uncertainty indexes; section 4 covers the estimation details; section 5
presents the results; section 6 shows some applications; and section 7 concludes.
4 The correlation between the daily U.S. uncertainty index and the VIX is 53 percent over

the sample period analyzed.
5 The correlation ranges between -0.26 to -0.45 for the United States, Euro Area, the United
Kingdom and Japan, whereas it is positive in Canada over the sample period analyzed in the
paper.

5

2. Data
Before getting into the model, this section presents information about the
data used to construct the surprise and uncertainty indexes. I use two different
types of data: the actual first release of the macroeconomic variable, say gross
domestic product (GDP) or nonfarm payroll, and its forecast as measured by
the Bloomberg median expectation. Of note, Bloomberg expectations generally
do not run the risk of being stale forecasts as they can be updated until one
hour before the data release. The forecast that I use is the latest one recorded
by Bloomberg.6 The actual releases of macroeconomic variables are used to
estimate the underlying factor model from which I gather the weights. The
difference between actual releases and Bloomberg expectations, also known as
news surprise or forecast error, is then used together with the weights to construct the surprise and uncertainty indexes. In what follows, I describe the
details of the data and study some of the properties of the news surprises.
The analysis covers five countries: the United States, the Euro Area, the
United Kingdom, Canada, and Japan. I use five indicators for each country,
except the United States for which I use six. Several considerations guide the
choice of variables. First, I want to use those variables that are regarded as the
main real activity indicators and as such followed by the business community,
governments, and central banks as indication of the state of the economy. Second, I choose indicators for which analysts form expectations that are publicly
available (see Table B1 in the online Appendix).7
The analysis for the surprise and uncertainty indexes covers the period from
May 15, 2003 through March 31, 2016. However, a longer dataset is used to
estimate the underlying business condition indexes: January 1980 to March 31,
2016, except for the Euro area where the sample starts in January 1985.
The first indicator is quarterly real GDP. For each country, the first GDP
release for the corresponding quarter is used. The second indicator is industrial
production (IP), which is a monthly indicator. The third indicator is employees
on nonagricultural payrolls, when available, or the unemployment rate.8 The
6 The survey is done on a rolling basis and the Bloomberg news team run tables every

weekday morning, as they get the forecasts. Economists can usually make changes up to an
hour before release time.
7 The table lists the indicators, together with their frequency, publication lags and transformations that I use to construct the real activity factor. The two rightmost columns list the
source of the data series that I use to construct the factor, and the corresponding Bloomberg
data series that I use to construct the surprise and uncertainty indexes.
8 Employment data and expectations are available only for the United States and Canada.

6

former tends to be more timely than the latter, but unfortunately it is not
available for all countries.9 The fourth indicator is retail sales, which is another
monthly variable. The fifth indicator is a survey measure of the manufacturing
sector or the overall economy (composite) depending on the availability of the
Bloomberg forecast. I use the ISM manufacturing index for the United States,
the composite PMI for the Euro Area, the manufacturing PMI for the United
Kingdom and Canada (Ivy survey), and the Tankan survey for Japan. The
Tankan survey is a quarterly series, whereas the other surveys are all monthly.10
Although monthly series are generally preferred when available, the Tankan
survey has the advantage of being very timely, as it is released on average four
days before the end of the quarter it refers to.11 The average publication lag for
the other series vary a lot as shown in table B1 in the online Appendix. Survey
measures are the most timely of all: the euro-area Flash composite PMI is the
first indicator to be released, followed by the Japanese Tankan survey, the U.S.
ISM and the U.K. PMI. On the other hand, GDP and IP data tend to be the
last information to be released.
The additional indicator for the United States is the Bureau of Economic
Analysis (BEA) personal income. Household income or personal income are
generally available for the other countries but because their expectation is not,
I drop them from the dataset.
As already mentioned, while the announcement itself is used in constructing
the real activity factor, the news surprise, that is the difference between announcement realizations (yti ) and their corresponding Bloomberg expectations
(E[yti |Ft ]), is used in constructing the surprise and uncertainty indexes. Because units of measurement vary across macroeconomic variables, I standardize
the resulting surprises by dividing each of them by their sample standard deviation (σ i ). The standardized news surprise associated with the macroeconomic

For the other countries we use the unemployment rate.
9 To avoid confusion, because for all the indicators a higher number means that the economy
is doing well, I feed the negative of the unemployment rate into the model.
10 For Canada, Bloomberg used to provide expectations for the non-seasonally-adjusted IVY
index, but as of March 2011, it started to provide expectations for the seasonally adjusted
series. I splice the two series together being aware of the break point.
11 The Tankan survey has an average publication lag of -4 days, but only Q4 numbers are
released before the end of the quarter (around mid-December). Other releases occur at the
beginning of the following quarter.

7

indicator y i at time t is therefore computed as:
sit =

yti − E[yti |Ft ]
.
σi

(1)

2.1. News Surprises
Market participants watch, and react to, scheduled macroeconomic announcements because these announcements potentially contain new information that
was not previously incorporated into market participants’ expectations about
the state of the economy. Several studies have looked into the forecast efficiency,
or rationality, of market expectations. Under rationality, the surprise component, measured as difference between the actual release and its forecast, should
truly represent “news,” meaning that market agents optimally use available
information in forming their forecasts, and therefore the forecast error should
be orthogonal to information available when the forecast is produced. This is
equivalent to testing whether the error term εit is orthogonal to the forecast
yti,f = E[yti |Ft ] in the equation
yti,f = yt + εit .

(2)

In particular, testing for forecast efficiency boils down to testing that αi = β i =
0 in the regression
sit = αi + β i yti,f + uit

(3)

where sit = yti − yti,f is the forecast error, a.k.a news surprise. This is sometimes
known as the Mincer−Zarnowitz test (Mincer and Zarnowitz (1969)). Several
earlier papers have applied these tests mainly using data revisions (among others, see Croushore and Stark (2001) and Faust et al. (2005)). Table 1 reports
evidence from the baseline tests of forecast rationality − tests of the hypothesis
that αi = β i = 0 in equation (3). As can be seen in the middle columns, αi and
β i are very often significantly different from zero and the F test fails to reject
the null hypothesis that αi = β i = 0 only in 1/3 of the cases.
But given that Bloomberg median forecasts are not efficient, why are they so
important? Why do I use them rather than using efficient forecasts that I could
construct within the factor model? The answer is simple: financial markets
react neither to my own private forecast nor yours; financial markets react to
Bloomberg forecasts, which are public and everyone can see.
A wide literature has documented the asset price response to macroeconomic

8

news announcements. Andersen et al. (2007) and Gilbert et al. (2012) among
others have looked into this question. Table 2 displays the results of univariate
regressions of foreign exchange returns on the individual macro announcement
surprises over the sample period 2003-2012. These results do not necessarily
correspond to what reported in the existing literature because of the different
samples used. However, they clearly state the point that Bloomberg forecasts
(and surprises) are important because financial markets react to them.
3. The Model
I use a standard dynamic factor model at a monthly frequency which explicitly accounts for missing data and temporal aggregation (details can be found
in the appendix). With it, each of the real-activity variables is used to extract
information about the common (unobserved) factor.
3.1. Forecasting Weights
The contribution of each real-activity variable to the determination of the
factor represents the weight applied to construct the surprise index. As shown
in Koopman and Harvey (2003), the weights wj (αt|t ) are used to calculate the
estimator of the state vector based on information available as of time t and can
therefore be used to compute the contribution of variable yji in forecasting the
factor x at time t:
xt|t =

t−1
X

wj (αt|t )yj .

(4)

j=1

As in the previous section, yt can contain vectors of monthly or quarterly series
(ytM , ytQ ). Each series is indicated by y i . wj is the vector of weights at time t
referring to the monthly and quarterly series.
I consider the real-time release schedule of each real activity series y i . For
example, if I want to calculate the factor for the month of March 2012, information about that month will be released gradually. In the United States, the ISM
index will be the first series to be released, most likely followed by employment,
retail sales, industrial production, and personal income. The advance reading
of GDP for the first quarter (i.e. the one which includes January) will be released with an average delay of 29 days from the end of the quarter. Based on
this real-time schedule, I can recursively compute the underlying unobserved
factor at time t based on the data availability until day t, that is xt|t . Equation
(4) displays the factor at time t as a weighted average of the data y released
9

between day 1 and t. The weights implicitly display a time decay feature with
more recent data exhibiting higher importance in determining the factor.
For each data series included in y, say y i , there exist a time series of weights
wji , so that cumulative forecast weights can be computed as in Banbura and
Rünstler (2010)
i
wcum
=

t
X

wji .

(5)

j=1

Forecast weights do not depend on time t, but depend on the forecast horizon
and the real-time release pattern of the data. In this paper, I abstract from
data revisions.
An alternative to using the forecast weights as outlined above, would be to
use the weights as described in Banbura and Modugno (2014). In this case,
the weights would have a different interpretation, as they would represent the
contribution of the news releases to the factor revision from period t to t + 1.
The Banbura and Modugno (2014) weights are represented by the bν+1,j in:
Jν+1

E[xit |Ων+1 ] − E[xit |Ων ] =

X

bν+1,j (yt − E[yti |Ων ])

(6)

j=1

where E[xit |Ων+1 ] − E[xit |Ων ] represents the revision to the factor implied by
the new data release, (yt − E[yti |Ων ]) is the news surprise, and Ων and Ων+1 are
two consecutive data vintages with Ων ⊂ Ων+1 . In the Banbura and Modugno
(2014) framework, E[yti |Ων ] is the model implied expectation of the variable y,
while in my framework E[yti |Ων ] would be the Bloomberg expectation for the
macro variable y. The advantage of their set-up is that the weights represents
the impact of the news release of a variable y on the underlying factor forecast,
rather than the importance of the underlying series y in determining the factor.
The drawback, however, is that the weight b is practically the Kalman gain
and as such, this set-up does not provide me with a time series of the weights
similar to what I have in my framework. A way to overcome this issue could be
to apply some arbitrary time decay feature similar to what applied by Citigroup
to construct the so-called “Citigroup Economic Surprise Indexes.” These indexes
are defined as weighted historical standard deviations of data surprises where
the weights of economic indicators are derived from the announcement’s impact
that these data surprises have on foreign exchange markets to which a subjective
decay function is applied.

10

3.2. The Surprise Index
I construct the surprise index starting from equation (4). With the idea that
forecast weights represent the importance of the series in determining the underlying unobservable factor, I use those same weights to combine the standardized
surprises so that the surprise index S at time t is:
St =

t
X

wj sj

(7)

j=1
Q 0
i
where sj = (sM
t , st ) contains the vectors of the standardized surprise s corre-

sponding to each data series y i . 12 In the application, I construct the underlying
series that feed into the factor so that a higher (lower) number means that the
economy is doing better (worse). Likewise, I construct each surprise such that
a positive surprise means good (bad) news for the economy. This implies that
the weights should be positive.
The surprise indexes are daily: every time new information becomes available, i.e. new data are released, the surprise index gets updated. If there are no
new data, the index is equal by construction to its value on the previous day.
Of course, more data releases imply that the surprise index gets updated more
frequently.
3.3. The Uncertainty Index
The uncertainty index is computed starting from equation (4) and averaging
squared surprises
v
u t
uX
Ut = t
wj s2 .
j

(8)

j=1

The link with realized volatility is straightforward. Just like realized volatility is computed as the square root of the average of squared returns, RVn =
q
Pn
1
2
t=1 rett , the uncertainty index is computed as the square root of the
n
weighted average of the squared surprises.13 The weights are not simply 1/n
12 Because s and w are vectors, I am practically aggregating over variables (through the
P
product of s and w) and over time (with tj=1 ).
q P
2
1
1 P
13 Realized volatility is more precisely defined as vol =
ret2i − n
reti but ben
cause the second term, the average return, tends to be zero it is frequently dropped. Similarly,
P
2
t
we abstract from using the second term,
in the definition of the uncertainty
j=1 wj sj
index. In practice, this term is very close to zero.

11

but are time varying. Moreover, unlike the volatility which is computed on one
instrument at a time using the history from t = 1, . . . , n, the uncertainty index
is computed across different instruments/surprises as well as across time.
As mentioned in the introduction, these surprise and uncertainty indexes
are ex-post, realized measures. Moreover, these indexes measure how optimistic / pessimistic or uncertain agents are about recent economic conditions.
Bloomberg forecasts are constructed in such a way that contributors can submit
and continuously revise their forecasts until one hour before the data release.
The forecasts that I use are screen-shots of the latest submitted forecasts. For
example, if we consider nonfarm payroll, a contributor can submit her forecast
until 7:30 am ET of the first Friday of the month for the release of nonfarm payroll referring to the previous month. In this sense, these measures are backward
looking measures as they use today’s best guess (forecast) about the state of the
economy in the recent past. Because the Bloomberg forecasts refer to the latest
macroeconomic statistics only, it is not possible to compute these measures for
different horizons, say t + 1, t + 2, ... In fact, the macroeconomic announcements
analyzed in this paper are all released with a reporting lag, meaning that they
are announced after the end of the period they refer to. Practically, this uncertainty measure can even be considered as a nowcasting/backcasting exercise in
that it uses weighed forecast errors from the recent past.
Similarly to the surprise indexes, the uncertainty indexes are also daily in
that they get updated every time new information become available.
4. Estimation
The construction of the indexes requires three steps:
(i) estimation of the state space model,
(ii) determination of the weights wj as defined in equation (4) and
(iii) construction of the indexes as for equations (7) and (8).
For step (i), the estimation of the model described in the online Appendix
A and B requires estimation of the parameters θ = {µ, Z, T, Σ}. The missing
data pattern complicates the estimation of the model. Missing data occur both
because the data are at different frequencies and because indicators are released
at different times after the end of the reference period (ragged edge). A number
of papers have dealt with different frequencies and missing observations either

12

within a Kalman filter framework (see among others Aruoba et al. (2009), Giannone et al. (2008), and Banbura and Modugno (2014)) or within a mixed data
sampling (MIDAS) regression framework (Andreou et al. (2011)). I estimate
the parameters by maximum likelihood implemented by the Expectation Maximization (EM) algorithm as proposed by Doz et al. (2012) and extended by
Banbura and Modugno (2014) to deal with missing observations and idiosyncratic dynamics.14 The EM algorithm iterates over two steps: in the expectation
step, the log-likelihood conditional on the data is calculated using the estimated
parameters from the previous iteration; in the maximization step, the parameters are re-estimated by maximizing the expected log-likelihood with respect to
θ. Following Doz et al. (2011) and Doz et al. (2012), the initial parameters θ(0)
are obtained through principal components and the iteration between the two
steps is stopped when the increase in likelihood between two steps is small.
In step (ii), once the parameters θ are estimated, the weights can be computed by running the algorithm defined in Koopman and Harvey (2003) to get
the smoothed weights. The history of weights wj (αt|t ) for j = 1, ..., t is computed in real time for any t based on the information available up until that
time.
Finally, in step (iii), the surprise and uncertainty indexes are computed based
on (7) and (8).
Each country is estimated separately. The estimation of the underlying business condition index is based on the longest common sample across countries
(1980-2012), except for the euro area for which not enough indicators are available before 1985. The Kalman filter is then run based on the estimated parameters in a real time framework (i.e. based on data that are released sequentially),
and steps (ii) and (iii) are repeated to get the smoothed weight matrix and the
real-time surprise and uncertainty indexes for each day from May 15, 2003 to
September 30, 2012.15 Step (i) is run over the entire sample, unlike steps (ii)
and (iii), because for countries in which data series become available later in
the sample estimates are not accurate at first.16 For the United States, where
there are no issues of data availability, there are no significant differences in the
14 I thank Banbura, Giannone and Reichlin for sharing their EM codes.
15 The surprise index is computed on a shorter sample due to the limited availability of
expectation data for all the countries.
16 The underlying real activity factor is estimated on the full sample to avoid parameter
instability problems due to the fact that, for some of the countries, some macroeconomic
releases become available later in the sample (namely retail sales and PMI series).

13

surprise indexes constructed according to the two methodologies.17
5. Results
Here I discuss the results following the steps described in the estimation
section.
5.1. Real Activity Indexes
The real activity indexes that I estimate based on the indicators described
above are displayed in figure 1. As mentioned, I use a longer history for the
estimation of these factors in order to have more reliable estimates. The figure
shows the latest factors, which include information as of March 31, 2016, for
the United States, the Euro Area, the United Kingdom, Canada, Japan, and an
aggregate of the five countries.
The average value of each index is zero by construction. Therefore, a value
of zero is interpreted as average economic activity for that country, whereas
progressively bigger positive values indicate progressively better-than-average
conditions and progressively more negative values indicate progressively worsethan-average conditions. Importantly, average conditions differ across countries.
For example, a value of zero for Japan corresponds to a number akin to 0.7
percent annual real GDP growth while a value of zero in the United States
corresponds to around 2.5 percent annual real GDP growth. The shaded areas
in the panels represent official recessions as defined by the NBER, CEPR, and
ECRI. The indexes fall sharply during recessions and tend to reach relatively
high values during good times, for example the late 1990s. As expected, the
U.S. business condition index is very similar to the ADS index maintained by the
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, with the difference that the ADS index
is daily and also includes weekly data such as initial jobless claims. Because the
other countries do not have relevant weekly data, I opted here for a monthly
frequency. The last panel shows the aggregate business condition index, which
is created by aggregating the other indexes weighing them by each country’s
GDP.
17 That means, running (i), (ii) and (iii) in real time versus running (i)over the entire sample,
and (ii) and (iii) in real time does not give significant differences for the United States.

14

5.2. Weights
To gauge the importance of the various indicators in constructing the surprise
and uncertainty indexes, I consider two different standpoints in analyzing the
weights: (i) I construct the cumulative weights as in equation (5) and (ii) I
analyze, at each time t, the vector of t × 1 weights, wtj , that are multiplied by
the announcements to get the time t surprise index based on equation (7).
To be clear, for t = te, the variable w that represents the weights in equation
(7) is a matrix of dimension te× M Q which contains those weights applied to all
the announcements available up to time e
t that are used in the construction of
the index. The sum of these weights over time represents the cumulative weight
Pte
i
= j=1 wji .
for indicator i at time te, that is wcum
Average cumulative weights computed over the 2003-2016 sample show that
employment (or unemployment) and industrial production have the highest
value in the United States, the Euro Area, and in the United Kingdom. In
Canada, most of the weight is concentrated on employment. In Japan, industrial production is the most important series followed by unemployment and
retail sales.18 Cumulative weights, however, are not constant over time and
therefore looking at their mean is not enough. They are affected by the pattern
of missing observations due to the different release schedules of the underlying
indicators (ragged edge). Figure 2 shows the evolution of the cumulative forecast
i
weights wcum
for each indicator over the first quarter of 2012. Each panel in the

figure displays the weights for a specific country. A clear pattern stands out: as
soon as new information about an indicator becomes available, the contribution
of that particular indicator increases. So, for example, the weight of the U.S.
nonfarm payroll series (NFP), represented by the green line in the top leftmost
panel, increases on January 6, February 3, and March 9 (solid vertical lines)
when the December, January and February figures are announced. Until the IP
numbers are released (dotted vertical lines), nonfarm payroll has the biggest
weight. With the release of the IP figures, the weight for IP (red line) increases
and becomes the highest of all. However, as additional information about real
activity in the United States is released, nonfarm payroll and IP weights start
to decline gradually. A similar pattern can be observed in the other countries:
as the more timely information becomes available, its weight jumps up and it
18 Details of the average cumulative weights are reported in table B2 in the online Appendix.
For comparability across countries, the table shows standardized weights so that the sum of
all weights in each country is equal to 1.

15

declines as other indicators are subsequently released. In the euro area (the top
rightmost panel), unemployment tends to have the highest weight overall, but
when IP numbers are released, IP weights become slightly bigger than those of
the unemployment data. In the United Kingdom, IP weights are always bigger
than any other weight. In Canada unemployment is consistently and by far the
highest weight. Finally, in Japan, the Tankan survey has the highest weight at
the beginning of the quarter when it represents the only available information
for that quarter, but its weight is immediately overtaken as other information
become available and, in particular, as IP numbers are released.
Turning to (ii), figure 3 shows the weights w when computed on March 31,
2012 for the six months prior to that day.19 The weights in all the countries
display a time decay feature. For the United States, nonfarm payroll and IP
(the green and red bars) have the highest weight for the month of February
based on information as of March 31, 2012. Interestingly, IP weights are more
persistent than the others, suggesting that past IP information continues to be
important whereas the nonfarm payroll information value is limited to the latest
available month. Because no data about March are released as of March 31, all
the weights are zero for the month of March. Weights are close to zero for
all indicators after about six months. Of note, the time decay feature implies
that an increase in the index might be due to a smaller weight given to an old
negative surprise or to a new positive surprise.
The Euro Area represents an interesting case because as of March 31, 2012,
flash euro-area PMI numbers for February and March are available, whereas
any other real activity information refers to January. While past PMI numbers
have a very small weight, the February and March PMI figures have a relatively
high weight. Once more, the weights for IP are the slowest to decline, and the
last available unemployment data displays the highest weight.
The United Kingdom seems to have the slowest time decay in its weights
compared to the other countries. In Canada, the employment weights dominate
every other weight. Japan displays the quickest time decay with weights reaching practically zero already after only four months. Unlike the other countries,
unemployment does not have the highest weight.
These weights are computed based on the available information as of March
31, 2012. Of course, the pattern would be different if the weights were to be
19 The idea is that w i represents the bars in figure 3, while w i
cum represent the lines in figure
j

2.

16

computed on another day when different information was available.
5.3. Surprise Indexes
The news surprise indexes for the United States, the Euro area, the United
Kingdom, Canada, Japan, and the aggregate of the five countries are displayed
in figure 4 (solid lines).20 A positive (negative) reading of the surprise index
suggests that economic releases have on balance been higher (lower) than consensus, meaning that agents were ex-post more pessimistic (optimistic) about
the economy. A positive number does not mean the economy is doing well on any
ordinary measure, but merely that economic forecasts were overly pessimistic.
The surprise index reaches its lowest value during the global financial crisis of
2008-2009 in most countries. This suggests that, as the crisis was unfolding,
agents were less pessimistic about its possible outcome and its impact on the
real economy, while the actual data turned out to depict a grimmer picture of
the stance of economic activity around the globe.
The euro-area surprise index dropped sharply in March 2012. As agents
became more optimistic on a resolution of the European debt crisis with the
bond exchange taking place in Greece, real activity indicators for 2012 that
were released in March were disappointing. The January unemployment rate,
released on March 1, was 10.70 percent versus an expectation of 10.40 percent.
The February and March euro-area PMIs released on February 22 and March
22 were 49.70 and 48.70 respectively, versus expected values of 50.50 and 49.60,
respectively. Finally, based on data released on March 14, euro-area industrial
production increased 0.2 percent from December 2011 to January 2012 versus
an expectation of a 0.5 increase.
Interestingly, the U.K. index dropped sharply on January 25, 2011 when
a very disappointing Q4 GDP for 2010 was released (-0.5 percent versus an
expectation of +0.5 percent). Although subsequent data helped the index to
move higher, it continued to be depressed until the second half of 2011. Agents
reportedly attributed the slowdown to a series of temporary factors (such as bad
weather, the Japanese earthquake, and the royal wedding) that were believed
to be short-lived. The transitory nature of these events most probably made
agents mark up their economic outlook, but, as a series of temporary factors
occurred, these expectation were always disappointed.
20 The indexes continue to be updated daily and are available from the author upon request.

17

The Japanese surprise index dropped sharply on April 27, 2011 as the actual
number for IP turned out to be a lot lower than expected following the March
2011 earthquake: IP decreased 15.30 percent between February and March versus the expectation of a 10.60 percent decrease.
On the other hand, there are also several instances where the surprise indexes
are positive, especially coming out of the recession in the United States, the
United Kingdom, and Canada.
More generally, the surprise indexes seem to be autocorrelated. Part of
this feature comes from the fact that old surprises continue to receive a positive weight for some time after their release. Except for Canada, the surprise
indexes are on average slightly negative, with a more negative value during recessions suggesting that, in the period considered, agents were on average overly
optimistic about the state of the economy.
For comparison, the dotted lines in figure 4 show the Citi Economic Surprise
Indexes (CESI). Although CESIs also measure economic news, they are constructed based on a different methodology. CESIs are defined as weighted historical standard deviations of data surprises (actual releases versus Bloomberg
median survey) and are calculated daily in a rolling three-month window. The
weights of the economic indicators are derived from relative high-frequency spot
foreign exchange impacts of 1 standard deviation data surprises adjusted to include a time decay feature so as to replicate the limited memory of markets.
Because the index constructed in this paper does not rely on the impact that
macroeconomic surprises have on asset prices, it represents a more objective
measure of deviation from consensus expectations. Although the two indexes
follow very similar patterns for all the countries, they also present some differences because both the set of indicators and the weights are different. For
example, the euro-area surprise index tends to lag the CESI especially during
the shaded area which represents the 2008-2009 recession.
5.4. Uncertainty Indexes
The uncertainty indexes for the United States, the Euro area, the United
Kingdom, Canada, Japan and the aggregate of the five countries are displayed
in figure 5 (solid lines). These indexes measure how uncertain agents are about
realized real activity conditions. A greater (smaller) reading of the uncertainty
index suggests that agents have on balance been more (less) uncertain about the
state of the current economy. The indexes tend to be elevated during recessions,
although there are other episodes when the indexes spike up. In the United
18

States, economic uncertainty was also relatively high in 2004 and a big jump was
observed at the end of 2005 and in 2012. The euro-area uncertainty index reaches
its highest values just before and after the 2008-2009 recession, suggesting that
agents were more uncertain about the economy as the euro-zone was entering
and exiting the recession. Increased macro uncertainty characterized also the
beginning of 2010, when the Greece “problem” started to emerge, and the period
between the end of 2011 and the start of 2012. Uncertainty in the United
Kingdom has been particularly elevated since early 2009, when compared to its
value in the first part of the sample. Canada has experienced several episodes
of elevated economic uncertainty, whereas in Japan, the period after the March
2011 earthquake was by far the one with the highest uncertainty regarding
the state of the Japanese economy. Interestingly, higher volatility is associated
with negative surprises. The correlation between the surprise index and the
uncertainty index tends to be stronger when the surprise index is negative.
The dotted lines in the panels show stock market implied volatilities in the
United States, Euro Area, United Kingdom, Canada, and Japan as represented
by the VIX, VSTOXX, VTFSE, VIXC and VXJ. The dashed lines display the
stock market realized volatilities for the respective countries. Notably, especially in the latter part of the sample, the uncertainty index and the VIX look
somewhat similar, whereas the uncertainty index of the euro area differs from
the VSTOXX.21 The two measures (implied volatility and uncertainty index)
are constructed in completely independent ways. Implied volatility, a forwardlooking measure, is computed from option prices. The uncertainty index, a
historical measure, is calculated from current and past macroeconomic news
surprises. The former is a wider measure that combines information about risk
aversion and future stock market volatility, and to the extent that these two
move with news surprises, the VIX also contains information about current and
future economic uncertainty. On the other hand, the uncertainty index presented here is a clean measure of agents’ uncertainty about the current state of
the economy. In the analysis that follows, I will decompose the VIX into stock
market uncertainty and variance risk premium, following Bakaert et al. (2013),
to use the part of the VIX that is most comparable to uncertainty.
21 Table B3 in the online Appendix displays the correlation between the uncertainty measure

and the implied and realized volatilities for each country.

19

6. Applications
In this section, I present a couple of applications for the surprise and uncertainty indexes. In the first application, the surprise index is shown to preserve
the properties of the underlying macro series in affecting asset prices in replicating the regressions shown in table 2. Combining several macro series into one,
the surprise index has the advantage of being potentially easier to use and very
parsimonious. In light of this, Demiralp et al. (2013) make use of it as a control variable when investigating the effects of political commentaries on policy
rate decisions and policy expectations in the United States and the Euro Area,
and find it to be a significant determinant of policy expectations. Similarly,
Brunetti et al. (2013) employ it as a control variable in studying the impact of
speculation activity in the crude oil market.
In the second application, the U.S. uncertainty index is compared to other
uncertainty measures commonly used in the literature. The uncertainty index
has a negative impact on real-activity series. Papers like Bloom (2009), Baker
et al. (2015), and Bachmann et al. (2013) have documented a similar analysis
with different measures of uncertainty. I find that, in the United States over the
last decade, when uncertainty is strictly related to the state of the economy as
measured by real activity, it has a potentially milder impact on macro activity
than when the uncertainty is related to both the macro and the financial sectors
as measured by the VIX.
6.1. Surprise Indexes and News Impact on Foreign Exchanges
As shown in section 2, macroeconomic news announcements affect asset
prices. The surprise index presented in this paper represents a nice summary
measure that can be used to parsimoniously control for news announcement
surprises in more general models.
Table 3 presents the results of a set of regressions where the euro/$, GBP/$,
CAD/$, and JPY/$ exchange rate returns are regressed on the U.S. surprise
index and the respective foreign surprise index, i.e. the euro/$ return is regressed
on the U.S surprise index and the euro-area surprise index, the GBP/$ return
is regressed on the U.S surprise index and the U.K. surprise index, etc. I cover
approximately the sample period for which the surprise indexes are available
(July 2003 to March 2016).22 As shown in the table, the surprise indexes tend
22 For comparison with the exercise in table 2, I run the regression only on days in which

20

to have the right sign and be significant: a positive change in the U.S. surprise
index (i.e. the U.S. economy doing better than expected) appreciates the U.S.
dollar versus the foreign currency, whereas a positive change in the foreign
surprise index depreciates the U.S. dollar.
6.2. Uncertainty Measures and the Business Cycle
A “true” measure of economic uncertainty does not exist and stock market
realized and implied volatilities have been commonly used as proxies for uncertainty. Bloom (2009), for example, uses the Chicago Board of Option Exchange
VXO index as a proxy for uncertainty.23 More recently, a growing literature
has focused on finding new measures of macroeconomic uncertainty. Bachmann
et al. (2013) use survey expectation data to construct time-varying business-level
uncertainty. For Germany and the United States, they construct a measure of
uncertainty with forecast disagreement from the IFO Business Climate Survey
and the Business Outlook Survey, respectively. Baker et al. (2015) create an
economic policy uncertainty (EPU) measure based on the frequency of newspaper references to economic policy uncertainty, the number and size of the federal
tax code provisions set to expire in future years, and the disagreement among
economic forecasters about policy relevant variables. Leduc and Liu (2012) use
a measure of perceived uncertainty of consumers and businesses from the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers in the United States
and the Confederation of British Industry (CBI) Industrial Trends Survey in
the United Kingdom. Bakaert et al. (2013) decompose the VIX into variance
risk premium, a measure of risk aversion, and stock market uncertainty. Jurado
et al. (2015) define uncertainty as the variability in the purely unforecastable
component of the future value of a variable and measure macro uncertainty as
the uncertainty factors common to individual measures of uncertainty across
a large number of series. Similarly to Jurado et al. (2015), my measure uses
forecast errors, which, however, are not the objective and efficient forecast errors from a model. Instead they are market based forecast errors and as such
my uncertainty index measures the perceived uncertainty about the state of the

there are news releases. This implies that I will have 556, 423, 443, 417, and 298 observations
for the U.S., euro-area, U.K., Canadian and Japanese news, respectively.
23 The VXO is equivalent to the VIX series that I use. The VIX was launched in 1993. In
2003, its formula was modified substantially. Data from the new 2003 VIX formula, also used
to reconstruct historical data going back to 1990, is known as the VIX. The data associated
with the original and revised VIX formulae is known as VXO. In my sub-sample VIX and
VXO coincide.

21

economy. Agents base decisions on their perceived uncertainty rather than an
objective uncertainty that they do not observe.
Figure 6 compares the real-activity uncertainty index developed here against
some of the available other measures of uncertainty for the United States. All
measures are de-meaned and standardized for comparison; they are all countercyclical, rising during economic downturns. The correlation of the uncertainty
index ranges from about 20 percent between with the Baker, Bloom, and Davis
EPU to over 60 percent with the VIX.24 The uncertainty index exceeds 1.65
standard deviations above its mean only few times but the peaks do not always
correspond with the peaks of the other series suggesting that these uncertainty
measures might indeed carry slightly different information.
A growing literature has also focused on analyzing the relationship between
real activity and uncertainty, and the latter has been generally found to have a
significant role in firms’ hiring decisions (employment) and output. To estimate
such effects, I estimate a bivariate VAR with log employment and each one of
the uncertainty proxies from figure 6, separately. Because of the short data set
(monthly data from May 2003 to March 2016), the bivariate VAR represents
a parsimonious way to model the joint dynamics between these variables. As
shown in Bachmann et al. (2013), the results are robust to estimating a larger
VAR similar to Bloom (2009).25 Each VAR is estimated selecting the lag length
based on the Schwarz Information Criterion; employment enters in log levels,
while uncertainty measures in levels.
Figure 7 shows the recursive impulse responses of employment to a onestandard-deviation uncertainty shock as measured by the different proxies, where
uncertainty is ordered first. The shaded region is the +/- one standard error
confidence interval for the real-activity uncertainty shock. Employment decreases after an uncertainty shock, no matter which uncertainty proxy is used.
However, how quickly and how deeply varies across measures, with shocks to the
VIX or the Bakaert et al. (2013) stock market uncertainty being the most quick
to materialize and the ones with the deepest trough. Shocks to the macroeconomic uncertainty index, to the Baker et al. (2015) EPU measure and the
24 The smallest correlation is between Bachmann, Elstner, and Sims and Baker, Bloom, and
Davis measures (about 10 percent). The highest correlations are between the VIX and the
Bakaert uncertainty/variance risk premium decomposition of the VIX (about 85-90 percent),
followed by the correlation between the VIX between Baker, Bloom, and Davis EPU measure
(about 70 percent).
25 Given the short dataset, I only estimate the bivariate VAR.

22

Bachmann et al. (2013) dispersion measure elicit a progressively lower impact
on employment over this period. This result suggests that when uncertainty
is strictly related to real activity, it has potentially milder impact on economic
activity. Just flipping the argument, when uncertainty is more generally related to economic as well as financial conditions as measured by the VIX or
the Bakaert et al. (2013) measure of stock market uncertainty, its impact on
real-activity variables appears to be stronger.26 This finding supports recent
work by Caldara et al. (2013) which finds that the financial channel is key in
the transmission of uncertainty shocks. Although I do not explicitly introduce
a financial channel, using the real-activity uncertainty index, the VIX and the
Bakaert stock market uncertainty measure allows me to distinguish between
purely macro versus the more general macro and financial uncertainty. Interestingly, the variance risk premium (not shown) does not seem to play a very
important role.27 An analysis of the fraction of the VAR forecast error variance
of employment that is attributable to innovations in each of the uncertainty
series over different forecast horizons confirms the results: the VIX and the
Bakaert stock market uncertainty decomposition explain about 2-3 times the
share of the forecast error of employment compared to the real-activity uncertainty index.
For robustness, some alternative specifications are considered. The result
just described holds true with other measures of real activity, such as industrial
production or unemployment rate. Although a similar comparison is not shown
for the other countries, the negative impact of an uncertainty shock on employment is generally significant across countries. As a robustness check, I estimate
generalized impulse responses from Pesaran and Shin (1998) which do not depend on the ordering of the variables and the results remain quite consistent
across uncertainty proxies and variables.
7. Summary and Concluding Remarks
The goal of this paper is to construct measures of (i) real-time economic
news and their deviation from consensus expectations and (ii) real-time uncertainty about the state of the economy. I view this paper as a “complement”
26 Figure A1 shows the confidence intervals for the real-activity uncertainty index and the
VIX.
27 The variance risk premium, computed as in Bakaert et al. (2013), elicits an impulse
response to employment similar to that of Baker et al. (2015) EPU.

23

to the Aruoba et al. (2009) business condition index updated on a daily basis
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. While the ADS index is a real
time measurement of the state of the economy, the surprise index presented
in this paper measures agents’ optimism or pessimism about the economy by
combining macroeconomic news surprises, and the uncertainty index measures
agents’ uncertainty about the current state of the economy. This paper is also a
“complement” to other papers that develop uncertainty measures in that it only
measures perceived uncertainty about the state of the economy and as such is
mostly linked to Bachmann et al. (2013).
I look forward to a variety of variations and extensions of this basic theme,
including but not limited to:
• constructing indexes for nominal variables to gauge optimism/pessimism
about inflation stance
• incorporating additional indicators and surprises for each country to construct a summary measure of real and nominal variables
• extending the framework to include U.S. macro surprises into foreign
economies frameworks to exploit the correlation/causation across business
cycles
• including vintages of data so that the indexes change not only when new
information is released but also when past information is revised
• expanding the dataset to construct indexes with a longer history
• analyzing in more depth the impact of different types of uncertainty.
References
Andersen, T. G., Bollerslev, T., Diebold, F. X., Vega, C., 2003. Micro effects of
macro announcements: Real-time price discovery in foreign exchange. American Economic Review 93, 38–62.
Andersen, T. G., Bollerslev, T., Diebold, F. X., Vega, C., 2007. Real-time price
discovery in stock. Journal of International Economics 73, 251–27.
Andreou, E., Kourtellos, A., Ghysels, E., 2011. Forecasting with mixedfrequency data. Oxford Handbook of Economic Forecasting, Chapter 8.

24

Aruoba, B. S., Diebold, F. X., Scotti, C., 2009. Real-time measurement of business conditions. Journal of Business and Economic Statistics 27, 417–42.
Bachmann, R., Elstner, S., Sims, E., 2013. Uncertainty and economic activity:

Evidence from business survey data. American Economic Jour-

nal:Macroeconomics 5 (2), 217–24.
Bakaert, G., Hoerova, M., Lo Duca, M., 2013. Risk, uncertainty and monetary
policy. Journal of Monetary Economics 60, 771–788.
Baker, S. R., Bloom, N., Davis, S. J., 2015. Measuring economic policy uncertainty, working Paper.
Banbura, M., Giannone, D., Reichlin, L., 2010. Nowcasting. In: Clements, M.,
Hendry, D. (Eds.), Handbook on Economic Forecasting. Oxford.
Banbura, M., Modugno, M., 2014. Maximum likelihood estimation of large factor model on dataset with arbitrary pattern of missing data. Internationa
Journal of Forecasting 29, 133–16.
Banbura, M., Runstler, G., 2010. A look into the factor model black box: Publication lags and the role of hard and soft data in forecasting gdp. International
Journal of Forecasting 27, 333–346.
Bloom, N., 2009. The impact of uncertainty shocks. Econometrica 77, 623–68.
Brunetti, C., Buyuksahin, B., Harris, J., 2013. Do institutional traders predict
bull and bear markets?, working Paper.
Caldara, D., Fuentes-Albero, C., Gilchrist, S., Zakrajsek, E., 2013. On the identification of financial and uncertainty shocks, mimeo.
Camacho, M., Perez-Quiroz, G., 2009. Introducing the euro-sting: Short-term
indicator of euro area growth. Journal of Applied Econometrics 25, 663–69.
Constable, S., Wright, R. E., 2011. The WSJ Guide to the 50 Economic Indicators That Really Matter: From Big Macs to Zombie Banks, the Indicators
Smart Investors Watch to Beat the Market. Harper Collins.
Croushore, D., Stark, T., 2001. A real-time dataset for macroeconomists. Journal of Econometrics 105, 111–13.

25

Demiralp, S., King, S., Scotti, C., 2013. Does anyone listen when politicians
talk? the impact of political commentaries on policy rate decisions and expectations, mimeo.
Doz, C., Giannone, D., Reichlin, L., 2011. A two-step estimator for large approximate dynamic factor models based on kalman filtering. Journal of Econometrics 64 (1), 188–20.
Doz, C., Giannone, D., Reichlin, L., 2012. A quasi maximum likelihood approach for large approximate dynamic factor models. Review of Economics
and Statistics 94 (4), 1014–102.
Faust, J., Rogers, J. H., Wright, J., 2005. News and noise in g-7 gdpannouncements. Journal of Money 37 (3), 403–41.
Fostel, A., Geanakoplos, J., 2012. Why does bad news increase volatility and
decrease leverage? Journal of Economic Theory 147 (2), 501–52.
Giannone, D., Reichlin, L., Small, D., 2008. Nowcasting: The real-time informational content of macroeconomic data. Journal of Monetary Economics 55 (4),
665–67.
Gilbert, T., Scotti, C., Strasser, G., Vega, C., 2012. Why do certain macroeconomic news announcements have a big impact on asset prices?, mimeo.
Jurado, K., Ludvigson, S., Ng, S., 2015. Measuring uncertainty. American Economic Review 105 (3), 1177–1216.
Koopman, S. J., Harvey, A., 2003. Computing observation weights for signal
extraction and filtering. Journal of Economic Dynamics (27), 1317–1333.
Leduc, S., Liu, Z., 2012. Uncertainty shocks are aggregate demand shocks,
fRBSF Working Paper.
Mincer, J., Zarnowitz, V., 1969. The evaluation of economic forecasts. In: Mincer, J. (Ed.), Economic Forecast and Expectations. New York: National Bureau of Economic Research, pp. 81–111.
Pesaran, H., Shin, Y., 1998. Generalized impulse response analysis in linear
multivariate models. Economics Letters 58 (1), 17–29.

26

Table 1: Forecast efficiency regression results (July 2003 - March 2016)

Country
United States

sit = αi + β i yti,f + uit
Series Name α
β

F

pvalue

GDP
IP
Employment
Retail Sales
ISM

-0.05
-0.09∗∗∗
-12.70 ∗∗
-0.05
1.12

-0.02
0.27∗∗∗
-0.01
0.18∗∗∗
-0.02

0.65
12.55
2.87
5.15
0.67

0.53
0.00
0.06
0.01
0.51

Personal Income
GDP
IP
Unemployment
Retail Sales
PMI

0.04 ∗
-0.02
-0.08∗
0.10 ∗∗
-0.07
1.03

-0.11∗∗∗
0.11 ∗∗∗
-0.11∗∗
-0.01∗∗
-0.13∗
-0.02

4.17
3.31
3.81
3.13
1.93
0.42

0.02
0.04
0.02
0.05
0.15
0.66

Canada

GDP
IP
Unemployment
Retail Sales
PMI
GDP

-0.14 ∗∗∗
-0.21∗∗∗
0.05∗∗∗
0.20 ∗∗∗
3.28 ∗
0.06

0.26∗∗∗
-0.01∗∗∗
-0.02∗∗∗
0.11 ∗∗∗
-0.06 ∗∗
-0.01

6.58
9.22
7.73
5.88
1.93
0.23

0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.15
0.80

Japan

IP
Employment
Retail Sales
Ivey Survey
GDP

-0.06 ∗∗∗
5.17
-0.07
19.95 ∗∗∗
0.01

0.06 ∗∗∗
0.12∗∗∗
0.35 ∗∗∗
-0.34∗∗∗
-0.05

7.00
2.98
5.78
7.23
0.25

0.00
0.05
0.00
0.00
0.78

IP
Unemployment
Retail Sales
Tankan

-0.42∗∗∗
0.17∗
0.04
0.16

0.04∗∗∗
-0.05∗∗∗
0.21 ∗∗∗
0.01

10.66
4.57
6.02
0.27

0.00
0.01
0.00
0.76

Euro area

United Kingdom

* 10 percent significance, ** 5 percent significance, and *** 1 percent significance.

27

Table 2: Results of univariate regressions in which exchange rate returns are regressed on each
individual macroeconomic news announcement surprise (July 2003 - March 2016)

dlog(F Xt ) = α + β ∗ sit + εt
Euro/$
GBP/$
CAD/$
Beta
R2
Beta
R2
Beta
R2
US
IP
Employment
Retail sales
Personal income
PMI
GDP
Foreign
IP
Empl/unempl
Retail sales
PMI/Ivey/Tankan
GDP

JPY/$
Beta
R2

0.029
0.271∗∗∗

0.003
0.125

0.021
0.214∗∗∗

0.001
0.130

0.043∗∗
0.002

0.005
0.000

-0.034
0.342∗∗∗

0.003
0.214

0.063
0.009
0.050
0.219∗∗∗

0.013
0.000
0.006
0.097

0.100∗∗∗
-0.040
0.035
0.017

0.030
0.004
0.001
0.000

-0.062
0.020
-0.013
0.084∗∗∗

0.010
0.001
0.000
0.011

0.198∗∗∗
-0.038
0.169∗∗∗
0.059

0.099
0.004
0.067
0.005

-0.066∗∗∗
0.064
-0.106
0.005
-0.113∗∗

0.023
0.066
0.023
0.000
0.038

-0.147∗∗∗
-0.039
-0.148∗∗∗
-0.238∗∗∗
-0.371∗∗∗

0.059
0.006
0.069
0.110
0.300

-0.028
-0.252∗∗∗
-0.013
-0.064
-0.090

0.005

0.077
0.009
-0.013
0.020
-0.005

0.023
0.001
0.004
0.001
0.000

-0.125
0.071
0.006
0.025

* 10 percent, ** 5 percent, and *** 1 percent significance with Newey-West standard errors.

Table 3: Results of univariate regressions in which exchange rate returns are regressed on
the change in the surprise index (July 2003 - March 2016)

dlog(F Xt ) = α + β ∗ d(St ) + εt
Euro/$
GBP/$
CAD/$
β
R2
β
R2
β
R2
US surprise index
Foreign surprise index

0.418∗∗∗
-0.358∗∗∗

0.032
0.016

0.303∗∗∗
-0.424

0.019
0.005

-0.061
-0.830∗∗∗

0.000
0.048

* 10 percent, ** 5 percent, and *** 1 percent significance with Newey-West standard errors.

28

JPY/$
β
R2
0.482∗∗∗
0.114

0.037
0.000

Figure 1: Real Activity Indexes (factors) for the United States, Euro Area, United Kingdom,
Canada, Japan, and aggregate of the five countries, as of March 31, 2016. The average
value of each index is zero by construction. A value of zero is interpreted as average economic
activity for that country, whereas progressively bigger (more negative) positive values indicate
progressively better-than-average (worse-than-average) conditions.

United States

Euro Area

0 = average economic activity

0 = average economic activity

4

4

2

2

3

3

1

1

2

2

0

0

1

1

−1

−1

0

0
−2

−2

−1

−1

−2

−2

−3

−3

−3

−3

−4

−4

−4

−4

−5

−5

−5

−5

−6

1980

1986

1992

1998

2004

2010

2016

−6
1985

1990

1995

United Kingdom

2000

2

1

1

0

0

−1

−1

−2

−2

−3

−3

−4

−4
1992

1998

2004

2015

0 = average economic activity

2

1986

2010

Canada

0 = average economic activity

1980

2005

2010

2

2

1

1

0

0

−1

−1

−2

−2

−3

2016

−3
1980

1986

1992

Japan

1998

2004

2010

2016

Aggregate
0 = average economic activity

0 = average economic activity

3

3

3

3

2

2

2

2

1

1

1

1

0

0

0

0

−1

−1

−1

−1

−2

−2

−2

−2

−3

−3

−3

−3

−4

−4

−4

−4

−5

−5

−5

1980

1986

1992

1998

2004

2010

2016

−5
1980

29

1986

1992

1998

2004

2010

2016

Figure 2: Average cumulative weights for the United States, Euro Area, United Kingdom,
Canada, and Japan over the first quarter of 2012.

United States

Euro Area
0.7

0.6

0.6

0.5

0.5

0.4

0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2

0.2

0.1

0.1
0.0
Jan 01 Jan 18

Feb 05 Feb 23 Mar 12 Mar 30

0.0
Jan 01 Jan 18

United Kingdom

Feb 05 Feb 23 Mar 12 Mar 30

Canada
0.5

0.8
0.7

0.4

0.6
0.5

0.3

0.4
0.2

0.3
0.2

0.1

0.1
0.0
Jan 01 Jan 18

Feb 05 Feb 23 Mar 12 Mar 30

0.0
Jan 01 Jan 18

Feb 05 Feb 23 Mar 12 Mar 30

Japan
0.40
0.35
0.30
0.25
0.20
0.15
0.10
0.05
0.00
Jan 01 Jan 18

Feb 05 Feb 23 Mar 12 Mar 30 ●

30

IP, Monthly GDP
Employment, unemployment
Surveys (ISM, PMI, IVEY, Tankan)
Retail Sales
GDP
Personal Income

Figure 3: Time series of weights for each indicator over the 6-month period October 2011March 2012, based on the information available as of March 31, 2012.

United States

Euro Area
0.35

0.35

0.30

0.30

0.25

0.25

0.20

0.20

0.15

0.15

0.10

0.10

0.05

0.05

0.00
Oct

Nov

Dec

Jan

2011

Feb

Mar

0.00
Oct

2012

Nov

Dec

Jan

2011

United Kingdom

Feb

Mar

2012

Canada
0.20

0.40
0.35

0.15

0.30
0.25

0.10

0.20
0.15

0.05

0.10
0.05

0.00
Oct

Nov

Dec

Jan

2011

Feb

Mar

0.00
Oct

2012

Nov

Dec

2011

Jan

Feb

Mar

2012

Japan
0.25

0.20

0.15

0.10

0.05

0.00
Oct

Nov

2011

Dec

Jan

Feb

2012

Mar
●

31

IP, Monthly GDP
Employment, unemployment
Surveys (ISM, PMI, IVEY, Tankan)
Retail Sales
GDP
Personal Income

Figure 4: The solid lines show the surprise indexes for the United States, Euro Area, United
Kingdom, Canada, Japan, and the aggregate of the five countries, as of March 31, 2016. The
dotted lines show the Citigroup Economic Surprise Indexes for the corresponding country
(left axis). A positive (negative) reading of the surprise index suggests that economic releases
have on balance been higher (lower) than consensus, meaning that agents were ex-post more
pessimistic (optimistic) about the economy.
United States
200

Euro Area
3

200

2

2
100

100

1

0

0

−100

−1

1
0

0
−1

−100
−2
−200

−3 −200
2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015

United Kingdom
200

−2
2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015

Canada
2

200

100

1

0

0

−100

2

100

1

0

0

−100

−1

−200

−2

−1

−200

−2 −300
2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015

Japan
100

−3
2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015

Aggregate
1

100

0.4

80
0.2

60
50

0.5

40

0.0

20
0

0.0

0

−0.2

−20

−0.4

−40
−0.6

−0.5 −60
−80

−50

−0.8

−100
−100

−1.0 −120
2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015

−1.0
2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015

32

Figure 5: The solid lines show the uncertainty indexes for the United States, Euro Area, United
Kingdom, Canada, Japan, and the aggregate of the five countries, as of March 31, 2016. The
dotted and dashed lines show stock market implied and realized volatilities respectively (left
axis).
United States

Euro Area

100

4

90

90

3.5

80

80
3.0
70
60

2.5

50

2.0

40

1.5

2.5

2.0

70
60

1.5

50
40

30
1.0
20
10
0

1.0

30
20

0.5

10

0.0

0

2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015

0.5

0.0
2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015

United Kingdom
90

Canada
2.5

80

70

2

60
2.0

70

1.5

50

60
1.5

50

40
1.0

40

1.0

30

30
20

20

0.5

0.5
10

10
0

0.0

0

2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015

0.0
2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015

Japan
100

Aggregate
2.5

90

80
70

80

1.8

1.6

2.0
60

70
60

1.5

50

1.4

50
40

40

1.0

1.2

30

1.0

30
20
20

0.5

0.8

10

10
0

0.0
2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015

0

0.6
2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015

33

Figure 6: The solid line represents the uncertainty index which is compared against other
common proxies for uncertainty, namely Bakaert et al. (2013) stock market uncertainty, Baker
et al. (2015) economic policy uncertainty index, Bachmann et al. (2013) dispersion measure
and the VIX. All series are demeaned and standardized. The horizontal line represents the
1.65 standard deviation limit.

8
VIX
Uncertainty Index
Bakaert et al
Baker et al
Bachmann et al

6

4

2

0

-2

-4
2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

34

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Figure 7: Employment response to a 1 standard deviation shock in the different uncertainty
proxies, namely the uncertainty index, the Bakaert et al. (2013) stock market uncertainty,
Baker et al. (2015) economic policy uncertainty index, Bachmann et al. (2013) dispersion
measure and the VIX.

.4

VIX
Baker et al EPU
Bachmann et al
Bakaert et al Uncertainty
Uncertainty Index

.2
.0
-.2
-.4
-.6
-.8
5

10

15

20

35

25

30

35

40

45

50

55

60

Online Material – Appendix A: The Dynamic Factor Model
I model the unobserved factor as a VAR process of order p:
xt+1

=

ηt

Λxt + η t ,

(.1)

∼ i.i.d.N (0, σ η ).

(.2)

The model includes both monthly and quarterly variables. The monthly
variables ytM follow a single factor model representation of the type:
ytM
εM
t

= µM + Z M xt + εM
t
=

M
αεM
t−1 + et

(.3)
(.4)

where xt represents the underlying real activity factor, εt is a vector of idiosyncratic components, and Z M represent the factor loadings for the monthly
variables. εt follows an AR(1) process, as shown in equation (.4), and eM
t ∼
i.i.d.N (0, ΣM
e ).
The quarterly variables ytQ follow a similar factor model representation:
ytQ

= µQ + Z Q xt + εQ
t

(.5)

εQ
t

Q
ρεQ
t−1 + et

(.6)

=

Q
with eQ
t ∼ i.i.d.N (0, Σe ). Quarterly variables in the model are GDPs for all

countries and the Japanese Tankan survey. I follow Mariano and Murasawa
(2003) in the way I incorporate quarterly GDP into the monthly factor model.
I define YtQ = 100 log(GDP ), then
(
ytQ =

Q
YtQ − Yt−3

NA

if t = 3, 6, 9, 12
otherwise,

(.7)

and using the Mariano and Murasawa (2003) approximation I get that for
t = 3, 6, 9, 12
Q
M
M
M
M
M
YtQ −Yt−3
≈ (YtM +Yt−1
+Yt−2
)−(Yt−3
+Yt−4
+Yt−5
) = yt +2yt−1 +3yt−2 +2yt−3 +yt−4 .

(.8)

1

Based on this I can link the quarterly variables to the monthly factor as
ytQ

=

µQ + ZtQ xt + 2ZtQ xt−1 + 3ZtQ xt−2 + 2ZtQ xt−3 + ZtQ xt−4

(.9)

Q
Q
Q
Q
+εQ
t + 2εt−1 + 3εt−2 + 2εt−3 + εt−4

A similar treatment can be applied to any other quarterly series in the dataset.1
Stacking monthly and quarterly variables, this model can be easily cast in a
state space representation:2

yt

= µ + Zαt

αt

= T αt−1 + ut ,

(.10)
ut ∼ i.i.d.N (0, Σ)

(.11)

where yt = (ytM , ytQ )0 , µ = (µM , µQ )0 and the state vector includes both the
common factor and the idiosyncratic components:


0
Q Q
Q
Q
Q
αt = xt , xt−1 , xt−2 , xt−3 , xt−4 , εM
,
ε
,
ε
,
ε
,
ε
,
ε
t
t
t−1 t−2 t−3 t−4

(.12)

We define the total number of indicators as nM Q . Of course, the model
could be extended to a multiple factor model.

Online Material – Appendix B: The State Space Representation
We report below the details of the state space representation as specified by
equations (.10) and (.11) when the only quarterly variable is GDP:
1 The other quarterly series in the dataset is the Japanese Tankan survey. Because it is
an index, I do not compute the log difference (growth rate) as for GDP. By defining YtQ =
Q
T ankannt and ytQ = YtQ −Yt−3
= T ankannt −T ankannt−3 , the same argument goes through
and equation (.8) holds exactly.
2 Details about the state space representation can be found in appendix B.

2



"

ytM

#

ytQ

"
=

| {z }

µM

#

"
+

Q

µ

ZM
Z

0

Q

2Z

0
Q

3Z

0
Q

|

yt

2Z
{z

Q

0

InM

Q

0

Z

xt





 xt−1 


 xt−2 




 xt−3 


# xt−4 

0 0 0 0 0  M 

 εt 

1 2 3 2 1  Q 
} εt 

 Q 
 εt−1 
 Q 

 ε
 t−2 
 Q 
 εt−3 
εQ
t−4
| {z }

Z

αt







Λ

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

 

 xt−1   1
 

 xt−2   0
 

 

 xt−3   0
 

 xt−4   0
 

 M  
 εt  =  0
 Q  
 
 ε
 t   0
 Q  
 εt−1   0
 Q  
 
 ε
 t−2   0
 Q  
 εt−3   0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

1

0

0

0

0

0

0

1

0

0

0

0

0

0

1

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

diag(α1 , ..., αnM )

0

0

0

0

0

0

αQ

0

0

0

0

0

1

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0
{z

0

xt

εQ
t−4

0
|

0

0

0



xt−1

0

ut

T

M

0

M

M

0

Q

Q

0

1
n
1
n
1
n
εM
, eM
, εQ
and eQ
t = εt , ..., εt
t =
t = εt , ..., εt
t = et , ..., et
 Q

Q 0
e1t , ..., ent
. Because we are considering the case of only one quarterly vari
 Q
 Q
 M
M
Q
1
able, εt = ε1t
and eQ
. Also Z M = Z 1 , ..., Z n
and
t = et

3

ηt





 
0   xt−2   0 


 

 

0 0 0 0 
  xt−3   0 


 
0 0 0 0   xt−4   0 


 

 

0 0 0 0 
  xt−5   0 
 M   M 
0 0 0 0   εt−1 + et 
 Q   Q 

 

0 0 0 0 
  εt−1   et 

 Q  
0 0 0 0   εt−2   0 

 Q  

 

1 0 0 0 
  εt−3   0 

 Q  
0 1 0 0   εt−4   0 
0
0 0 1 0
εQ
t−5
| {z }
}
0

M
with n
and nQ representing
the

 number of monthlyand quarterly
 variables,
M

 



ση




 .
V ar(ut ) = Σ =  ..



0



···

0

ΣM
e




σ 1M

 e
.. 

with ΣeM =  0
. 


0

0

0
σQ
e
···

0

0



..

.

0

 3
.


0

σ enM

o
n
Q
M
.
The parameters to be estimated are θ = µM , µQ , Z M , Z Q , Λ, α1 , ..., αnM , αQ , σ η , σ M
e1 , ..., σ enM , σ e

3 We use the notation Σ to indicate a variance-covariance matrix and σ to indicate its
elements.

4

5
Level, percent
Level
Index

Unemployment rate
Retail Sales
Tankann Survey

Index
Real GDP, level
Index, level

GDP
IP

Ivey PMI

Japan

Real GDP, level
Index, level
Level
Level

GDP
IP (monthly GDP)
Employment
Retail Sales

Canada

Real GDP, level
Index, level
Level, percent
Level
Index

GDP
IP
Unemployment rate
Retail Sales
PMI Manufacturing

Level, percent
Level
Index

Unemployment rate
Retail Sales
PMI Composite (Flash)

level
Real GDP, level
Index, level

Personal Income
GDP
IP

Real GDP, level
Index, level
Level
Level
Index

Description

GDP
IP
Employment
Retail Sales
ISM Manufacturing

Series Name

United
Kingdom

Euro Area

United
States

Country

M
M
Q

Q
M

M

Q
M
M
M

Q
M
M
M
M

M
M
M

Q
M

M

Q
M
M
M
M

Frequency

28
27
-4

46
28

6

61
60
7
52

24
38
15
20
2

32
41
-9

48
46

29

29
16
5
13
2

Publication
Lag(days)

log diff
log diff
diff

log diff
log diff

diff

log diff
log diff
log diff
log diff

log diff
log diff
log diff
log diff
diff

log diff
log diff
diff

log diff
log diff

log diff

log diff
log diff
log diff
log diff
diff

Transformation
for factor

MIC
METI
BoJ

ESRI
METI

PMAC

STCA
STCA
STCA
STCA

UK ONS
UK ONS
UK ONS
UK ONS
Markit

EUROSTAT
EUROSTAT
Markit

EUROSTAT
EUROSTAT

BEA

BEA
FRB
BLS
ISM
ISM

Source

JNUE
JNRETMOM
JNTSMFG

JGDPAGDP
JNIPMOM

IVEY

CGE9ANN
CAIPMOM
CANLNETJ
CARSCHNG

UKGRABIQ
UKIPIMOM
UKUER
UKRVAMOM
PMITMUK

UMRTEMU
RSSAEMUM
ECPMICOU

EUGNEMUQ
EUITEMUM

PITLCHNG

GDP CQOQ
IP CHNG
NFP TCH
RSTAMOM
NAPMPMI

Bloomberg
Mnemonic

Table B1: Summary information of the real activity indicators used in the paper to construct the surprise and uncertainty indexes for the United
States, Euro Area, United Kingdom, Canada, and Japan

Table B2: Average cumulative weights for each indicator used to construct the surprise index.
For comparability across countries, weights are standardized so that the sum of all weights in
each country is equal to 1. The average is computed over the entire sample.

GDP
IP
Employment/Unemployment
Retail Sales
PMI
Personal Income

United
States

Euro
area

United
Kingdom

Canada

Japan

0.03
0.36
0.26
0.18
0.06
0.10

0.07
0.39
0.26
0.18
0.10

0.11
0.46
0.27
0.11
0.05

0.00
0.02
0.91
0.01
0.04

0.01
0.53
0.20
0.14
0.12

Table B3: Correlation between the uncertainty measure and the implied and realized volatilities for each country.

Correlation of Uncertainty vs:
United
States

Euro
area

United
Kingdom

Canada

Japan

Implied Volatility

0.52

0.11

0.35

0.32

-0.01

Realized Volatility

0.53

0.11

0.31

0.33

0.06

Correlations are all significant except in the case of Japanese uncertainty vs. implied volatility.

6

Figure A1: +/- one standard error confidence interval for the real-activity uncertainty shock
and the VIX

.02

.00

-.02

-.04

-.06

-.08
5

10

15

20

25

30

35

Uncertainty Index

7

40
VIX

45

50

55

60

