               Finance and Economics Discussion Series
       Divisions of Research & Statistics and Monetary Affairs
              Federal Reserve Board, Washington, D.C.




An Empirical Analysis of Futures Margin Changes: Determinants
                   and Policy Implications




                        Nicole Abruzzo and Yang-Ho Park

                                               2014-86



   NOTE: Staff working papers in the Finance and Economics Discussion Series (FEDS) are preliminary
materials circulated to stimulate discussion and critical comment. The analysis and conclusions set forth
are those of the authors and do not indicate concurrence by other members of the research staff or the
Board of Governors. References in publications to the Finance and Economics Discussion Series (other than
acknowledgement) should be cleared with the author(s) to protect the tentative character of these papers.
         An Empirical Analysis of Futures Margin Changes:
                  Determinants and Policy Implications


                       Nicole Abruzzo∗ and Yang-Ho Park∗∗
                                    September 2, 2014



                                        ABSTRACT

Margin regulation raises two policy concerns. First, an alignment of margins to volatility
can amplify procyclicality, leading to a build-up of excess leverage in good times and a
forced deleverage in bad times. Second, competition among central counterparties (CCPs)
can result in lower margin levels in order to attract more trading volume, which is referred
to as a “race to the bottom.” Motivated by these issues, we empirically analyze the de-
terminants of margin changes by using a data set of various futures margins from Chicago
Mercantile Exchange (CME) Group. We first find that CME Group raises margins quickly
following volatility spikes but does not immediately lower margins following volatility de-
clines, implying that margin-induced procyclicality is more of a concern in recessions than
in expansions. In addition, we find some evidence that the margin difference between CME
Group and its competitor, Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), is an important driver of mar-
gin changes after changes in other margin determinants are controlled for, implying that
competition may be factored into margin setting.

JEL Classification: G01, G18, G28
Keywords: Margin; futures; volatility; central counterparties; procyclicality; race to the
bottom; and Dodd-Frank Act




    ∗
     Independent, nicole.abruzzo@gmail.com, Tel: (714)-321-6688.
    ∗∗
      Corresponding author, Federal Reserve Board, yang-ho.park@frb.gov, Tel: (202)-452-3177.
    We are grateful for comments and suggestions from Celso Brunetti, Sean Campbell, Sanjiv Das,
Michael Gordy, Erik Heitfield, Jim O’Brien, and seminar participants at the Federal Reserve Board
and the European Central Bank, Banque de France, and Bank of England Conference on OTC
Derivatives Reform. This paper benefited from the excellent research assistance of Juliette Lu, and
was written while Nicole Abruzzo was at the Federal Reserve Board. Disclaimer: The analysis
and conclusions set forth are those of the authors and do not indicate concurrence by the Board
of Governors or other members of its research staff. Send correspondence to Yang-Ho Park, Risk
Analysis Section, the Federal Reserve Board, 20th & C Streets, NW, Washington, D.C. 20551.
1       Introduction

The recent collapses of financial conglomerates such as Bear Stearns and Lehman
Brothers demonstrated that the opaque, complex interconnections among financial
institutions adversely affect market liquidity and induce fire sales during a financial
crisis. In response, Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act requires that standardized over-
the-counter (OTC) derivative contracts be cleared through CCPs.1 The reform is
grounded in the conventional wisdom that central clearing can help reduce systemic
risk. For example, central clearing can help mitigate counterparty credit risk by
removing the direct risk exposure between counterparties, making it easy for regu-
lators to monitor and limit excessive risk taking. In addition, central clearing can
reduce the total amount of margin needed to mitigate counterparty risk by allowing
for multilateral netting (see Duffie and Zhu (2011)).
     However, despite the merits of central clearing, the success of the new regulation
hinges on the effectiveness of the risk management tools that CCPs adopt as they bear
all the counterparty risk arising from cleared derivative transactions. To help ensure
this result, Title VIII of the Dodd-Frank Act reinforces the role of supervisory agencies
over the CCPs that are designated as systemically important by the FSOC (Financial
Stability Oversight Council). Under this rule, the regulators have the responsibility of
examining and approving the margin requirements of CCPs.2 Against this backdrop,
from a regulator’s perspective, it is important to understand the determinants of
margin changes and their impact on the financial system.
    Specifically, the objective of this paper is to analyze the margin setting methods
used by CME Group, which is both a CCP and a futures exchange, and evaluate their
implications for financial regulation.3 We will focus on two specific issues related to
margin setting. First, we investigate whether CME Group makes immediate margin
changes in response to volatility changes for various futures contracts. The margin
    1
     This reform was initially decided on by the Group of Twenty (G20) in September 2009, and
once it takes effect, about 46 percent of the current notional value of OTC derivatives is expected
to be centrally cleared as reported in a quantitative impact study by BCBS and IOSCO (2013).
   2
     The scope of supervision goes beyond the margin requirements, covering collateral requirements,
default fund management, and the clearing and settlement procedures.
   3
     CME Group provides clearing services through the in-house clearing division. Besides, it was
formed when CME and CBOT (Chicago Board of Trade) merged in 2007, and it later acquired
NYMEX (New York Mercantile Exchange) and COMEX (Commodity Exchange), in March 2008,
and KCBOT (Kansas City Board of Trade), in December 2012.



                                                 2
data comprise 15 futures contracts spanning five asset classes including equity index,
currency, metal, energy, and agriculture. Second, we examine whether competition
among CCPs is factored into margin setting to attract more trading volume. To do
this we collect an additional data set of margins for the energy futures from ICE, a
rival of CME Group, and then examine whether the margin difference between CME
Group and ICE is an important driver of margin changes even after changes in other
margin determinants are controlled for.
      The first issue is related to the concern that an alignment of margins to volatility
can amplify procyclicality in the financial system. It is widely believed that CCPs
raise (lower) margins following volatility increases (decreases) in order to keep the
probability of margin shortfall that futures price varies more than margin require-
ments over a close-out period at a certain level over time. If this is the case, investors
is allowed to take more leverage in times of low volatility and forced to deleverage
their risk exposure in times of high volatility to meet margin calls (see, for exam-
ple, Committee on the Global Financial System (2010)). This procyclical effect can
be further exacerbated through an interacting spiral between funding liquidity and
market liquidity as explained by Brunnermeier and Pedersen (2009).
     The second issue is motivated by the concern over a “race to the bottom” in
which competition among CCPs can result in lower margin levels in order to attract
more trading volume.4 As reported by Hardouvelis and Kim (1995) and Ito and Lin
(2001), margin changes affect the volume of trades. In light of this apprehension,
the Brady Report published in the wake of the 1987 crisis suggests that margins be
harmonized across closely related markets. Therefore, another goal of this paper is to
investigate whether competition is factored into margin setting after changes in other
determinants are accounted for.
     It is important to note that CME Group makes margin changes infrequently.
To assess the frequency of margin changes, we compute the average number of days
between margin changes for each futures contract. For example, the average number
of days between margin changes is on the order of three quarters for the equity futures
and on the order of two and a half months for the agriculture futures. The currency,
  4
    Santos and Scheinkman (2001) present a model of financial intermediation in which margin
requirements can be used as a screening device when clearing members’ credit quality is private
information, and show that there will be a “race to the bottom” if the exogenous bankruptcy
penalty is low.



                                              3
metal, and energy futures fall in between. These infrequent margin changes imply
that CME Group considers increasing or decreasing margin requirements only when
margin determinants change beyond certain threshold levels. For this reason, our
empirical analysis is based on the assumption that there will be a margin increase
only if a latent margin change indicator rises above an upper threshold; a margin
decrease only if a latent margin change indicator drops below a lower threshold; and
no margin change otherwise.
     Our empirical results are twofold. First, the relation between margin changes and
volatility changes is asymmetric. CME Group tends to raise margin requirements as
volatility increases beyond a certain positive threshold. However, puzzlingly, it does
not lower margin requirements even when volatility drops below a certain negative
threshold for all of the futures contracts that we consider, except for the corn futures.
These results are robust to changes in control variables such as jump risk, market liq-
uidity, and funding liquidity. As a consequence, during economic downturns, clearing
members are likely to be forced to deleverage their risky investments, as CME Group
raises margins immediately in response to volatility increases. However, during eco-
nomic expansions, they would not be able to increase their leverage, as CME Group
tends to maintain the current margin levels for a while despite volatility decreases.
     Second, we find some evidence that the margin difference between CME Group
and ICE is an important driver of margin changes even after changes in other risk
factors are accounted for. Specifically, CME Group tends to lower its margins when
it has higher margin levels than ICE. This is a particularly interesting fact because
the margin difference is the only factor that we find to be statistically significant
in explaining CME Group’s margin cuts at 95 percent or higher confidence levels.
On the other hand, ICE tends to raise its margins when it has lower margin levels
than CME Group. Overall, these results indicate that competition among CCPs is a
significant driver of the current margin levels.
     This paper is broadly related to the literature on the margin-volatility relation.
Just after the market crash of October 1987, there was heated debate over whether
the credit-financed speculation in the stock markets had an adverse effect on the
stability of the financial system, driving asset prices out of the fundamental levels. To
understand this issue, many researchers examined whether the margin requirements
set by the Federal Reserve System affected stock market volatility. The results are



                                           4
mixed. Some authors such as Hardouvelis (1990) and Hardouvelis and Theodossiou
(2002) find positive answers, whereas others, such as Schwert (1989), Kupiec (1989),
Salinger (1989), and Hsieh and Miller (1990) show inclusive results. Note that this
paper is distinct from the existing papers in two main respects. First, we focus on
the other side of the margin-volatility relation—whether volatility changes affected
margin changes. Second, our application looks at margin requirements in the futures
markets rather than the stock markets.
     The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 provides a brief overview
of how a margin system works. Section 3 describes the construction of three volatility
proxies that are used in our empirical analysis. Section 4 explains the margin data
and shows some preliminary analysis of margin changes. The main empirical results
are provided in Section 5. Finally, Section 6 provides a summary of the results and
policy considerations.



2    Overview of margin requirements

The safeguards used by CCPs include, but are not limited to, collecting margins
and guaranty funds, restricting the range of acceptable collateral, and setting forth
minimum membership criteria. Of particular interest in this paper are margin require-
ments, or performance bonds. There are three types of margin requirements: initial,
maintenance, and variation margins. Initial or maintenance margins are collected to
cover the potential future loss that may arise in the event of a clearing member’s
default, whereas variation margins are collected to cover realized losses that have
already occurred. Specifically, the initial margin is the amount of margin required at
the opening of a trading account, whereas the maintenance margin is the least amount
of margin that should be maintained throughout the life of a trading account. If the
balance of a trading account is lower than the maintenance margin, then a clearing
member is required to post a variation margin to bring the balance back to the initial
margin. Margins thus play a crucial role in guaranteeing contractual obligations by
ensuring that both realized and future losses will be covered.
     Margins differ depending on whether the purpose of a trading account is hedging
or speculation and according to specifications in some futures contracts. Typically,
maintenance margins for speculation, initial margins for hedging, and maintenance


                                           5
margins for hedging are all identical; only initial margins for speculation differ from
and are higher than the other three. For illustration, for the Nasdaq 100 futures
contract on September 24, 2012, CME Group set the initial and maintenance margins
for speculation at $11,000 and $10,000 per contract, respectively, and set both the
initial and maintenance margins for hedging at $10,000 per contract. Margins differ
by time to maturity for some asset classes such as energy, metal, and agriculture
futures. For agriculture futures margins also depend on whether they are old or new
crops.
     Let us illustrate how a margin system works. Suppose that a speculator buys
one Nasdaq 100 futures contract and that the initial and maintenance margins for
speculation are currently set at $11,000 and $10,000 per contract. The speculator
has to put up an initial margin equivalent to $11,000 at the close of today. Consider
a situation where the futures price drops by 5 points the next day. As the contract
size of the Nasdaq 100 futures is 100, the 5-point drop corresponds to a loss of $500,
and so the remaining balance of the trading account is $10,500. As the remaining
balance is still higher than the maintenance margin level, no margin call will be
issued in this case. Now consider another situation where the futures price drops by
20 points the next day. The 20-point drop corresponds to a loss of $2,000, and so
the remaining balance of the trading account is $9,000. As the remaining balance is
lower than the maintenance margin level, a margin call will be issued in this case.
That is, the speculator will be called upon to post an additional margin—a variation
margin—equivalent to $2,000 in order to bring the balance back to the initial margin
level.



3    Volatility measures

Volatility is considered the most important determinant of margin requirements. For
example, some authors, such as Figlewski (1984), Gay, Hunter, and Kolb (1986),
and Fenn and Kupiec (1993), use a normal distribution model that suggests that
margin levels be proportional to the level of volatility, while others, such as Cotter
(2001) and Longin (1999), use extreme value theory to capture the tails of return
distributions. Yet, little is known about what kind of a volatility proxy has been used
in margin setting by CCPs. Hence, we consider three different measures of volatility:


                                          6
exponentially weighted moving average (EWMA) volatility, range-based EGARCH
volatility, and high-frequency-based realized volatility (RV). The frequency of all the
volatility measures is daily.


3.1     Exponentially weighted moving average

The first volatility measure applied in our margin analysis is exponentially weighted
moving average volatility. We choose to consider this measure because it is easy to
compute and widely implemented in practice.5 Given today’s EWMA volatility, the
next day’s EWMA volatility is recursively computed as

                           EWMA2t = λ · EWMA2t−1 + (1 − λ) · rt2 ,                                (1)

where rt is the return at time t and λ is a constant between 0 and 1 that represents
the weight given to previous volatility estimates relative to a new innovation. In
our analysis, we opt to set λ = 0.98 for higher statistical significance.6 Additionally,
EWMA0 is initialized by computing the historical standard deviation of returns over
the past year:                          sP
                                             k
                                                       b)2
                                             t=1 (rt − µ                            (2)
                             EWMA0 =                       ,
                                               (k − 2)
where µb is the sample mean of returns over the past year and k = 252 for the number
of business days in a year.
     EWMA volatility is computed using the front-month futures price data that are
obtained from Thomson Reuters Datastream. For each futures contract the data
comprise open, high, low, and settlement prices, as well as volume and open interest.
Some filters are applied to clean the data. Specifically, we exclude the observation if
the high price is less than the low price, or if either the high or low price is less than
or equal to 0. To get rid of stale prices, we also exclude the observation if the trading
volume is less than 10.
   5
    For example, it is used in the RiskMetrics solution of J.P. Morgan.
   6
    We test λ = 0.97, λ = 0.98, and λ = 0.99 and find that λ = 0.98 results in the highest statistical
significance.




                                                  7
3.2     Range-based EGARCH

For our second volatility proxy, we compute the range-based, one and two-factor
EGARCH models of Brandt and Jones (2006) among the variants of the GARCH
(generalized autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity) model. We apply the one-
factor model to the currency, metal, energy, and agriculture contracts, and the two-
factor model to the equity index contracts.
     The range, denoted by dt , is defined as the difference between the day’s high
and low prices. The range-based volatility estimator has practical and econometric
advantages over daily-return-based or high-frequency-based estimators.7 The range
data are available over a longer history than the high-frequency data.8 Brandt and
Diebold (2006) show that a range-based volatility estimator is robust to market mi-
crostructure noises such as bid-ask bounces and nonsynchronous trading, unlike a
high-frequency-based estimator. Most importantly, a range-based estimator is five
times more efficient than its daily-return-based counterpart, and has the same effi-
ciency as the volatility measures computed using three- or six-hour intraday returns
(see Parkinson (1980) and Brandt and Jones (2006)).
    The range-based EGARCH models are based on the property that the log range
can be approximated by a normal distribution:

                               log dt ∼ N (0.43 + log ht , 0.292 ),                           (3)

where ht is the volatility state and N stands for a normal distribution. The two-
factor EGARCH model, which is applied to the equity index contracts, allows for
time-variation in the long-run mean of ht . It takes the following form of volatility
dynamics:

                                                               d
           log ht − log ht−1 = κh (log qt−1 − log ht−1 ) + φh Xt−1 + δh rt−1 /ht−1
                                                              d
            log qt − log qt−1 = κq (log q − log qt−1 ) + φq Xt−1 + δq rt−1 /ht−1              (4)
                          d     log dt−1 − 0.43 − log ht−1
                        Xt−1  =                              ,
                                            0.29
   7
    See, for example, Brunetti and Lildholdt (2007).
   8
    For example, ranges have been publicized for many decades in the financial press, often in the
form of candlestick charts.




                                                8
where qt denotes the stochastic long-run mean, κh and κq are speeds of mean reversion
for volatility and long-run volatility, respectively, φh and φq are volatility of volatility
parameters, q is the long-term mean of long-run volatility, and δh and δq capture
the leverage effect, which is the negative correlation between changes in prices and
volatility.
    The one-factor EGARCH model, which is applied to all of the other contracts,
takes a simpler form of volatility dynamics:

                                                               d
              log ht − log ht−1 = κh (log h − log ht−1 ) + φh Xt−1 + δh rt−1 /ht−1 ,    (5)

where h denotes the long-term mean of volatility and we set δh = 0 when there is no
substantial leverage effect, in cases such as the currency futures.
     We estimate the range-based EGARCH models using the maximum likelihood
method with the optimizer of Berndt, Hall, Hall, and Hausman (1974). Note that we
recalibrate the models on each date only using the information that is available up to
that date so that the volatility state is truly observable at the time of CME Group’s
decision making. We denote by EGARCHt the one-step-ahead volatility forecast.


3.3      Realized volatility and jump variation

CME Group states that it looks at intraday volatility as well as historical volatility.9
As our third volatility proxy, we take a monthly measure of realized volatility, follow-
ing Andersen, Bollerslev, Diebold, and Ebens (2001), Andersen, Bollerslev, Diebold,
and Labys (2003), and Barndorff-Nielsen and Shephard (2002). Realized volatility,
denoted by RVt , is obtained by summing the squared five-minute futures returns over
the past 21 trading days on each date:

                                       1/∆
                                    21 X                              2
                                    X
                            RVt ≡             ft−i+j∆ − ft−i+(j−1)∆        ,             (6)
                                    i=1 j=1


where ft denotes the log futures price and ∆ is the sampling interval for the intraday
data.
       We also compute the high-frequency-based jump variation because jump risk may
  9
      See “Quick Facts on Margins at CME Clearing,” CME Group, July 2011.




                                                 9
be accounted for in margin setting. To compute the jump variation we first obtain
                                                     (d)
a daily measure of realized volatility, denoted by RVt , by summing the squared
five-minute futures returns on each date:
                                          1/∆                              2
                                (d)
                                          X
                              RVt     ≡          ft−1+j∆ − ft−1+(j−1)∆           .          (7)
                                          j=1

                                                                                     (d)
Next, we compute a daily measure of the bipower variation, denoted by BVt , using
the approach of Barndorff-Nielsen and Shephard (2004):

                        1/∆
             (d) π      X
           BVt ≡              ft−1+j∆ − ft−1+(j−1)∆ ft−1+(j−1)∆ − ft−1+(j−2)∆ .             (8)
                    2
                        j=2

                                                                      (d)
A daily measure of jump variation, denoted by JVt , is then defined by subtracting
a daily measure of bipower variation from a daily measure of realized volatility, with
a floor of zero:
                                      (d)                 (d)         (d)
                                JVt         ≡ max(RVt − BVt , 0).                           (9)

    Finally, a monthly measure of the jump variation, denoted by JVt , is obtained
by summing the daily jump variations over the past 21 trading days:
                                                    21
                                                                (d)
                                                    X
                                            JVt =         JVt−i+1 .                        (10)
                                                    i=1


     The five-minute intraday futures price data are obtained from Thomson Reuters
Tick History. Because there are two trading sessions, Globex and regular pit trading,
we use the composite series, which combines both sessions. For all of the contracts
that we consider, except for the metal futures, we use the nearest-month contracts.
For the metal contracts, we use the volume-based roll method instead of the nearest-
month-based roll method because the former allows for more data than the latter.
Even though we use composite prices, we include observations only for pit trading
hours for each futures contract because illiquid overnight trading may not represent
prices well. Pit trading hours differ by futures contracts, as can be seen in Table 1.




                                                     10
4     Margin data and preliminary analysis

This section describes the margin data collected from CME Group and shows some
preliminary results such as summary statistics for the margin changes and the prob-
ability of margin shortfall.


4.1    Margin data

For the empirical analysis, we choose CME Group’s futures contracts that cover five
different asset classes, including stock index, currency, metal, energy, and agriculture.
Within each asset class, we choose the three most representative futures contracts.
We choose the S&P 500, the Nasdaq 100, and the Dow Jones for stock index futures;
the British pound, the euro, and the Japanese yen for currency futures; gold, silver,
and copper for metal futures; WTI crude oil, RBOB gasoline, and heating oil for
energy futures; and corn, wheat, and soybean for agriculture futures. Specifications
of each contract are provided in Table 1.
     CME Group publishes historical margin requirements for its futures contracts.10
Usually CME Group first sets maintenance margins and then sets initial margins by
scaling up the maintenance margins; the ratio of the initial to maintenance margins
remains constant for a specific contract most of the time. For this reason, the empirical
analysis that follows is based on maintenance margins only.
     We set a few rules to ensure that we are collecting comparable margins for each
contract over time. For both metal and energy asset classes, margins are different
depending on the tier or month of the contract; we collect the margin data only for
the front month or top tier contract. For the metal contracts, we record the margin
data if tier 1 or month 1 is specified or if there is no specification of tier or month,
and we also accept the margin data if month 1-4 is specified instead of just month
1. For the energy contracts, we only collect the margin data if month 1 is clearly
specified. If the month is not listed, we do not record the margin data for that date.
For agriculture contracts, margins are differently set for new- and old-crop contracts,
although these margins are rarely different. We choose to use the margin data only
for old-crop contracts in our empirical analysis. If neither old nor new is specified,
 10
   Historical margin data are available at
http://www.cmegroup.com/clearing/risk-management/historical-margins.html.


                                           11
we assume it is old and still collect the margin data. Note that we collect month 1
contracts here too. For the corn futures, for example, when old or new is not specified,
sometimes month 1 will be noted and we record the margin data.
      The margin data start on different dates for the various contracts included in
our sample but extend through July 2013 for all contracts. Hence, our sample period
ends on July 31, 2013 with the longest sample period being approximately 13 12 years
and the shortest sample period being approximately four and a half years. The
first sample date for each contract is listed in Table 2. Note that the margin data
have daily frequency as with the volatility measures. Figures 1 through 5 compare
margins to volatility (left panels) and to futures prices (right panels) for the stock
index, currency, metal, energy, and agriculture futures, respectively.


4.2    Summary statistics of margin changes

Throughout the paper we use Mt to denote the margin level at time t and define it
as
                                             M̃t Ut
                                      Mt =          ,                               (11)
                                              Ct
where M̃t denotes the maintenance margin per contract as reported on the CME
Group website; Ut denotes the pricing unit, either dollars (1) or cents (0.01); and Ct
denotes the contract size. Both contract size and corresponding pricing unit are listed
in Table 1. Finally, throughout the paper we define a margin change as the difference
in the logarithms of margins:
                                                          
                                                     Mt
                               ∆ log Mt = log                  .                    (12)
                                                    Mt−1

      While the margin changes are obtained on a daily basis, they are zero for most
of the days because CME Group infrequently changes margins. In other words, there
are only a few days when the margin changes are nonzero. In Table 2, we present
summary statistics only on the nonzero margin changes for each futures contract. The
third column reports the total number of the nonzero margin changes that have been
made throughout the sample period for each futures contract, while the fourth and
fifth columns break down the number into the number of increases and the number
of decreases, respectively. These numbers clearly show that very few margin changes



                                          12
have been made, whether decreases or increases. For example, there have been just
six margin increases and eight margin decreases for the S&P 500 index futures over
the past 13 12 years.
     In the sixth column, we present the average number of days between margin
changes for each futures contract, which indicates the frequency with which CME
Group makes margin changes. Interestingly, these numbers vary across asset classes
but are very similar within each asset class. For example, for stock index contracts
the average number of days between margin changes is on the order of three quarters,
while for agriculture contracts, margin changes are made around every two and a half
months. The currency, metal, and energy futures fall in between.
     Another interesting feature revealed by the table is that once CME Group has
decided to change the current margin, it makes a large adjustment. The seventh
and eighth columns in Table 2 report average margin increases and decreases, re-
spectively, for each futures contract. The average margin increases across different
futures contracts range from 10 to 25 percent except for the heating oil futures, and
the all-contract average is around 18.9 percent. The average margin decreases across
different futures contracts range from −10 to −25 percent, and the all-contract aver-
age is −16.7 percent. This feature can be confirmed by the histogram of the margin
changes for all futures contracts shown in Figure 6. The histogram shows that most
of the margin changes are concentrated in the ranges of plus and minus 10 to 25
percent and that there are very few observations of small margin changes.
    All in all, margins are sticky. This can be explained by the fact that margin
changes can incur operational costs to CME Group and have material financial im-
pacts on its clearing members. In an effort to minimize the side effects of margin
changes, CME Group makes margin changes only when margin determinants change
beyond certain threshold levels, which takes place infrequently. This feature is very
important in analyzing the determinants of margin changes, which will be clarified in
Subsection 5.2.


4.3    Probability of margin shortfall

As stated earlier, CCPs usually set margins to ensure that futures price swings can
be covered over a specific close-out horizon at a certain confidence level. CME Group


                                         13
documents that margins are set to cover 99 percent of potential price swings (the
close-out horizon is not specified).11 The confidence level is a key variable in margin
calculations and is ultimately associated with the extent of risk that the CCP bears.
    To understand CME Group’s degree of risk tolerance, we look at the probability
of margin shortfall, or the probability that future prices vary more than what its
margin requirements cover over a one- or three-day close-out horizon. This is equal
to one minus the associated confidence level. Computing the probability of margin
shortfall requires full knowledge of return distributions. For simplicity, we assume that
futures returns follow a normal distribution with mean zero and standard deviation
measured by EWMA volatility. This assumption allows us to compute the probability
of margin shortfall over the horizon τ , denoted by αt,τ :

                                                                 √
                                                                         
                                          Ft − Mt+2
                       αt,τ = Φ log                       ; 0,       τ EWMAt ,       (13)
                                              Ft

where Ft is the futures price and Φ stands for the standard normal cumulative distri-
bution function. Notice that we use the two-day-ahead margin level, Mt+2 , because
we assume that Mt+2 is already determined at time t. This will be explained in Sub-
section 5.1. Also note that we compute the probability of margin shortfall only when
margin changes are actually made.
     Table 3 reports the mean, minimum, and maximum of the probability of margin
shortfalls for each futures contract. The left panel of the table corresponds to a
one-day close-out horizon, and the right panel corresponds to a three-day close-out
horizon. The table shows that the probability of margin shortfall varies across asset
classes, implying that CME Group takes different levels of risk tolerance for different
asset classes. For the stock index contracts, the mean of the one-day probability
of margin shortfall is much lower than 1 percent, implying that CME Group sets
margins very conservatively for these contracts. The mean of the one-day probability
of margin shortfall is 0.03 percent for the S&P 500, 0.12 percent for the Nasdaq 100,
and 0.05 percent for the Dow Jones. The metal futures are another case in which CME
Group sets margins conservatively. The conservative margin setting for the equity
and metal futures can be in part attributed to the fact that those contracts usually
have higher levels of jump risk relative to the others. In contrast, for the agriculture
contracts, the mean of the one-day probability of margin shortfall is higher than 1
 11
      See http://archive.opnmkts.com/clearing/understanding-margin-changes.



                                               14
percent, implying that CME Group sets margins much less conservatively for these
contracts. The mean of the one-day probability of margin shortfall is 1.75 percent for
corn, 1.79 percent for wheat, and 1.19 percent for soybean. For currency and energy
contracts, CME Group sets the probability of margin shortfall close to 1 percent, on
average.
     Figure 7 presents a scatter plot of the mean of the probability of margin shortfall
against the average number of days between margin changes across different futures
contracts. This plot indicates that there is a negative relation between these variables.
That is, the higher the probability of margin shortfall the smaller the average number
of days between margin changes. The negative relation indicates that there are some
futures contracts for which CME Group sets the probability of margin shortfall more
conservatively and makes margin changes less frequently, and other futures contracts
for which CME Group sets the probability of margin shortfall less conservatively and
makes margin changes more frequently.



5     Empirical analysis of margin changes

This section aims to understand the determinants of futures margin changes and
draw policy implications for financial stability policy. Specifically, we examine the
asymmetric relation of margins to volatility and the effects of competition between
CME Group and ICE on margin setting.


5.1    Determinants of margin levels

Although our main interest is to understand the determinants of margin changes, we
start by examining the determinants of margin levels. To do this, we run the following
linear regression for each futures contract:

            Mt = β0 + β1 EWMAt−2 + β2 EGARCHt−2 + β3 RVt−2 + β4 PRCt−2
                                                                                     (14)
               + β5 JVt−2 + β6 VLMt−2 + β7 OIt−2 + β8 TEDt−2 + εt ,

where EWMAt is the EWMA volatility, EGARCHt is the range-based EGARCH
volatility, RVt is the realized volatility, PRCt is the futures price, JVt is the jump
variation, VLMt is the trading volume, OIt is the open interest, and TEDt is the TED


                                           15
spread.
     While we suspect volatility is the most important determinant of margin re-
quirements, it is not known what kind of a volatility proxy has been used in setting
margins by CCPs. Thus, we consider three choices of a volatility proxy—EWMA,
EGARCH, and RV—in the regressions. Table 4 shows correlations across the three
volatility proxies for each contract. The table shows that the correlations range from
0.65 to 0.97 depending on contracts. Although the correlations are sometimes as high
as 0.95, we do not experience a singularity issue in the regression of the margin levels.
     We also add to the regression other variables that CME Group may consider
in setting margins, including futures price, jump variation, trading volume, open
interest, and TED spread. In particular, futures prices should be an important factor
in setting margins because futures margins are specified in dollar amounts but not
in percentage terms. For example, if futures returns are assumed to follow a normal
distribution, margins should be linearly proportional to futures prices. Jump variation
is included to see if CME Group takes into account jump or tail risk. Lastly, trading
volume and open interest are included as measures of market liquidity, and TED
spreads are included as a measure of funding liquidity.
      It is very important to note that explanatory variables are lagged by two business
days. We do this because CME Group is obligated to announce a margin change at
least 24 trading hours in advance to give clearing members sufficient time to assess
its financial impact and prepare for it. On top of that, CME Group needs time to
decide upon a margin change and make an announcement for it. For this reason, we
assume that CME Group uses information that it currently has at the close of today
to set margins that will be effective in two business days.12
     Table 5 presents the linear regression results with Newey and West (1987) robust
t statistics (10 lags). EWMA is the only volatility proxy that is statistically significant
at a 99 percent confidence level for every contract and that consistently has a positive
coefficient for every contract. This is not always the case with the EGARCH and RV
volatility proxies. For EGARCH, 7 out of 15 contracts lack statistical significance,
6 out of 15 are statistically significant at 95 percent confidence levels, and only 2
out of 15 are statistically significant at 99 percent confidence levels. For RV, 8 out
  12
     In practice, CME group sometimes sends out an advisory notice in more than two business days
in advance.



                                               16
of 15 contracts lack statistical significance, 3 out of 15 are statistically significant at
95 percent confidence levels, and only 4 contracts are statistically significant at 99
percent confidence levels. In addition, EGARCH and RV have negative coefficients
for some futures contracts. Based on these results we conclude that, among the
choices considered, EWMA volatility best represents the volatility proxy that is used
in margin setting. Hence, in the empirical analysis that follows, we use the EWMA
volatility as our primary proxy for volatility.
     As is expected, futures price has a statistically significant coefficient at 99 percent
confidence levels for all of the futures contracts except for the pound contract. One
thing we should note is that the coefficients on futures price have negative signs for
two equity index futures contracts: S&P 500 and Dow Jones. The negative signs can
be explained by the leverage effect, which is the negative correlation between stock
returns and volatility changes. That is, even though futures prices increase in boom
periods, margins are likely to be lowered as volatility decreases, and conversely in
bust periods. So, while volatility and futures prices tend to have opposing effects on
margin levels for the equity index futures, the former appears to have a first-order
impact on margins, whereas the latter seem to have a second-order impact.


5.2    Determinants of censored margin changes

The preceding subsection looks at the determinants of margin levels and find that
EWMA volatility best represents the volatility proxy that is used in margin setting
by CME Group. We now turn to investigating whether CME Group makes imme-
diate margin changes in response to volatility changes. In analyzing this issue, it
is important to remember that margin changes are made infrequently, as explained
in Subsection 4.2. Because of this empirical fact, we assume that there will be a
margin increase only if a latent margin change variable rises above an upper thresh-
old, a margin decrease only if a latent margin change variable drops below a lower
threshold, and no margin change otherwise. To account for this assumption, we run
a Tobit regression in which margin changes are censored around zero for each futures




                                            17
contract:
              
              0       if L < yt∗ < U
   ∆ log Mt =
              y ∗     otherwise
                   t
                                                                                      (15)
            yt∗ = β0 + β1 ∆h EWMAt−2 + β2 ∆h PRCt−2 + β3 ∆h JVt−2 + β4 ∆h VLMt−2
              + β5 ∆h OIt−2 + β6 ∆h TEDt−2 + εt ,

where L < 0 and U > 0 are the lower threshold for margin decreases and the upper
threshold for margin increases, respectively; yt∗ is the latent margin change variable
that is driven by changes in EWMA volatility and other margin determinants; and
∆h (·) denotes a difference operator over the lookback period h, that is, ∆h (·)t ≡
(·)t − (·)t−h . As in Subsection 5.1, the Tobit regression is based on the assumption
that CME Group uses information that it currently has at the close of today to set
margins that will be effective in two business days.
     There are two kinds of parameters that need to be determined for the Tobit
regression. First, threshold levels, which can vary across futures contracts, are not
observable. To resolve this issue, we set L equal to the smallest of the historical
margin decreases and U equal to the smallest of the historical margin increases for
each futures contract. These numbers are provided in the last two columns of Table
2. For example, for the gold futures, L and U are set at -7.3 percent and 5.7 percent,
respectively.
     Second, the lookback period h is unknown. It may be the case that CME Group
considers a change in volatility over the last week, the last month, or the cumulative
change since the most recent margin change date. Hence, the lookback period reflects
how quickly CME Group responds to changes in market conditions. We compare
Tobit regressions across different choices of a lookback period—one day, one week,
two weeks, one month, and the period since the most recent margin change—and
find that weekly changes in the explanatory variables can best explain CME Group’s
margin changes (the results are available upon request).
     Table 6 presents the results for Tobit regressions of margin changes against weekly
changes in volatility and other margin determinants, with t statistics provided in
parentheses and explanatory power computed by McFadden’s adjusted R2 . From
these regression results, we conclude that volatility changes are the only important
driver of margin changes that is consistently significant for all of the futures contracts.


                                             18
Changes in EWMA volatility have positive coefficients for every contract, implying
that CME Group immediately changes margins when the volatility changes over the
past week are larger than the certain threshold level. These results are statistically
significant for 14 out of the 15 futures contracts at 99 percent confidence levels and
for the RBOB gasoline futures at a 95 percent confidence level.
     In Subsection 5.1, we find a statistically significant relation between margin levels
and futures prices for most of the futures contracts. However, in this subsection,
we find that changes in futures prices have no statistically significant relation to
margin changes for many of the futures contracts; there are only five cases—silver,
RBOB gasoline, corn, wheat, and soybean—where the coefficients on price changes
are statistically significant at 95 or 99 confidence levels with the expected sign. In fact,
this result is consistent with the statement made by CME Group that “[m]argins are
set based on volatility, not prices.”13 Therefore, we argue that a change in volatility
is the only important factor in determining whether to make a margin change, but
once a margin change has been decided upon, futures price is also considered in
determining the magnitude of the change.


5.3       Determinants of trichotomous margin changes

We now turn to examining the determinants of trichotomous margin changes, meaning
that we consider only three possible outcomes of margin changes. The trichotomous
margin change variable, denoted by Tt , is equal to +1 if there is a margin increase,
−1 if there is a margin decrease, and 0 otherwise. As in the Tobit regression, we
assume that there will be a margin increase only if a latent margin change variable
rises above an upper threshold; a margin decrease only if a latent margin change
variable drops below a lower threshold; and no margin change otherwise. To account
for this assumption, we run an ordered trinomial Probit regression for each futures
  13
       See “Quick Facts on Margins at CME Clearing,” CME Group, July 2011.




                                               19
contract:
                   
                   
                   
                   −1    if yt∗ ≤ L
                   
            Tt =     0    if L < yt∗ < U
                   
                   
                          if yt∗ ≥ U                                                         (16)
                   
                   1

            yt∗ = β0 + β1 ∆h EWMAt−2 + β2 ∆h PRCt−2 + β3 ∆h JVt−2 + β4 ∆h VLMt−2
               + β5 ∆h OIt−2 + β6 ∆h TEDt−2 + εt ,

where εt ∼ N (0, 1); L < 0 and U > 0 are the lower threshold for margin decreases
and the upper threshold for margin increases, respectively; and yt∗ is the latent margin
change variable. As in the Tobit regression, we assume that the lookback period, h, is
the past week. However, unlike the Tobit regression, the lower and upper thresholds
here will be determined by estimation. Because of an identification issue, we assume
that L = −U .14 Notice that while the Probit regression does not account for the
magnitude of margin changes, as opposed to the Tobit regression.
     Table 7 presents the Probit regression results for trichotomous margin changes,
with t statistics reported in parentheses and explanatory power computed by Mc-
Fadden’s adjusted R2 . From these regression results, we reach virtually the same
conclusion as we did from the Tobit regression results. That is, volatility changes are
the sole important factor in determining whether to make margin changes. Specifi-
cally, the coefficients on changes in volatility have positive signs for all of the contracts,
implying that CME Group changes margins when volatility changes beyond a cer-
tain threshold. The results are statistically significant for 12 out of the 15 futures
contracts at 99 percent confidence levels and for the gold futures at a 95 percent con-
fidence level. The results for RBOB gasoline and heating oil contracts lack statistical
significance.


5.4        Asymmetric margin changes

In Subsection 5.2 we find that CME Group makes timely margin changes following
volatility changes. Of particular interest in this subsection is whether CME Group
reacts differently to volatility increases and decreases. To investigate this asymmetric
response, we first introduce volatility increases, ∆h EWMA+    t = max(∆h EWMAt , 0),
  14
       Alternatively, one can assume that β0 = 0, letting L and U both be free parameters.



                                                  20
and volatility decreases, ∆h EWMA− t = min(∆h EWMAt , 0). We then run the follow-
ing Tobit regression of margin changes against volatility increases and decreases for
each futures contract:
             
             0     if L < yt∗ < U
  ∆ log Mt =
             y ∗   otherwise
                t
                                                                                     (17)
                                     −        −
        yt∗ = β0 + β1+ ∆h EWMA+
                              t−2 + β1 ∆h EWMAt−2 + β2 ∆h PRCt−2 + β3 ∆h JVt−2

           + β4 ∆h VLMt−2 + β5 ∆h OIt−2 + β6 ∆h TEDt−2 + εt .

                                                     −
     The coefficients on ∆h EWMA+   t and ∆h EWMAt indicate CME Group’s respon-
siveness to volatility increases and decreases, respectively. If margins are raised be-
cause of volatility increases, ∆h EWMA+   t must have a positive coefficient; if mar-
gins are lowered because of volatility decreases, ∆h EWMA−     t must have a positive
coefficient; and if CME Group is indifferent to volatility increases and decreases,
                              −
∆h EWMA+    t and ∆h EWMAt must have the same positive coefficient.

      Table 8 presents the Tobit regression results for margin changes against volatil-
ity increases and decreases, with t statistics in parentheses and explanatory power
computed by McFadden’s adjusted R2 . Expectedly, the volatility increases have sta-
tistically significant and positive coefficients at 95 or 99 percent confidence levels for
all of the futures contracts except for the corn futures. The positive signs indicate
that CME Group immediately increases margins when volatility rises above a certain
threshold level. However, we do not find evidence that CME Group immediately de-
creases margins even when volatility drops below a certain negative threshold. Only
the corn futures have a statistically significant and positive coefficient on volatility
decreases.
     To sum up, the relation between margin changes and volatility changes is asym-
metric. CME Group quickly reacts to volatility increases by increasing margins, but
it takes a conservative stance in improving environments by maintaining current mar-
gin levels for a while despite volatility decreases. As a consequence, during economic
downturns, clearing members are required to post additional margins immediately
after volatility increases and forced to deleverage their risk exposure to meet the
margin call. During economic expansions, however, they are not able to expand their
leverage as quickly as volatility decreases. Overall, margin-induced procyclicality is
more of a concern in recessions than in expansions.


                                           21
5.5    The impact of competition on margin changes

When setting margins, CCPs face two conflicting objectives: achieving financial
health by maintaining margins at a certain confidence level, and attracting more
trading volume by setting margins lower than they would otherwise set. This sub-
section looks at whether or not competition among CCPs distorts margin levels in
order to attract more trading volume, which is commonly referred to as a race to the
bottom.
     We consider the two largest futures exchanges in the world: CME Group and
ICE. The analysis in this subsection is limited to the energy futures contracts: WTI
crude oil, RBOB gasoline, and heating oil, each of which is competitively traded in
both CME Group and ICE. Unfortunately, we are unable to include the other asset
classes for various reasons; the equity and metal futures that we consider in this
paper are not traded in ICE; the currency futures we consider in this paper are thinly
traded in ICE; and the agriculture futures were launched recently, in May 2012, so
the sample period is too short.
     Figure 8 presents a comparison of margin levels between CME Group and ICE for
the energy futures contracts. Not surprisingly, the two exchanges tend to make margin
changes in tandem most of the time, although there are some notable differences in
early 2009.
     To examine the effect of competition on margin setting, we introduce the margin
difference between the two CCPs, denoted by MRGN DIFFt :

                      MRGN DIFFt ≡ log Mtown − log Mtcomp − δ,                    (18)

where Mtown and Mtcomp denote a CCP’s own margin and its competitor’s margin,
respectively, and δ refers to the fundamental, or long-term, difference in margins be-
tween two CCPs. A fundamental margin difference may exist because the two CCPs
may have different levels of risk tolerance or because there are some contractual dif-
ferences between the two CCPs; for example, CME Group’s energy futures contracts
are physically settled, whereas ICE’s contracts are cash-settled. Because the funda-
mental margin difference is not observable, we take the sample mean of the historical
log margin differences as a proxy for it:

                              δ = log Mtown − log Mtcomp .                        (19)



                                          22
where the upper bar indicates the sample mean.
     From a macroprudential perspective, we are particularly interested in whether a
CCP is likely to lower its margins when it has higher margins than its competitor,
after controlling for changes in other margin determinants. To this end, we divide
the margin difference into positive and negative components:

                         MRGN DIFF+
                                  t ≡ max(MRGN DIFFt , 0)
                                                                                       (20)
                         MRGN DIFF−
                                  t ≡ min(MRGN DIFFt , 0),

                                         −
where MRGN DIFF+     t and MRGN DIFFt denote positive and negative margin dif-
ferences, respectively, from a CCP’s perspective. We then run the following Tobit
regression of the margin changes against the positive and negative margin differences
for each CCP-futures pair:
               
               0      if L < yt∗ < U
    ∆ log Mt =
               y ∗    otherwise
                   t
                                                                                       (21)
                                          −          −
           yt∗ = β0 + β1+ MRGN DIFF+
                                   t−2 + β1 MRGN DIFFt−2 + β2 ∆h EWMAt−2

              + β3 ∆h PRCt−2 + β4 ∆h VLMt−2 + β5 ∆h OIt−2 + β6 ∆h TEDt−2 + εt .


    Note that MRGN DIFF+        t is associated with a race to the bottom, whereas
             −
MRGN DIFFt is associated with a race to the top. That is, if a CCP tends to
lower its margins when it has higher margins than its competitor, MRGN DIFF+      t is
expected to have a negative coefficient. On the other hand, if a CCP tends to raise its
margins when it has lower margins than its competitor, MRGN DIFF−       t is expected
to have a negative coefficient.
     Panel A of Table 9 shows whether CME Group takes ICE’s margin levels into
consideration. As can be seen by this panel, the result for CME Group has negative
coefficients on positive margin differences for each futures contract, implying that
CME Group tends to lower its own margins when it has higher margins than ICE.
This empirical result is statistically significant at 95 percent confidence levels for every
energy futures contract, despite the fact the sample period is relatively short. This
is particularly interesting because competition is the only factor that we find to be
statistically significant in explaining CME Group’s margin cuts. The result for CME
Group also has negative coefficients on negative margin differences for each futures



                                            23
contract, even though statistical significance is obtained only for the WTI crude oil
at a 95 confidence level. These negative coefficients imply that CME Group has a
tendency to increase its margins when it has lower margins than ICE.
     Now let us look at whether ICE takes CME Group’s margin levels into account.
Panel B of Table 9 shows that ICE have negative coefficients on negative margin
differences for each futures contract, implying that ICE tends to raise its own margins
when it has lower margins than CME Group. This empirical result is statistically
significant at 99 percent confidence levels for the RBOB gasoline and the heating oil
futures. However, we do not find evidence that ICE tends to lower its own margins
when it has higher margins than CME Group.
     In sum, the empirical results above indicate that margin changes can be partly
explained by competition even after changes in other margin determinants are con-
trolled for. This finding is important from the financial stability perspective because
competition among CCPs can make overall margin requirements inappropriately lax.



6    Summary and policy considerations

Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act requires that standard OTC derivative contracts
be cleared through CCPs, and Title VIII of the Dodd-Frank Act grants supervisory
organizations the authority to examine and approve the margin requirements of CCPs.
Against this backdrop, this paper empirically analyzes the current margin setting
methods used by CCPs and evaluates their implications for the financial regulations.
     First, we provide evidence that the current margin rule as set by CME Group
is indeed sensitive to volatility. To be specific, CME Group promptly increases mar-
gins as volatility increases beyond a certain positive threshold, although it does not
immediately decrease margins even when volatility drops below a certain negative
threshold. Although the risk-based margin rule helps better protect the CCP per se,
it can further deteriorate the funding conditions of clearing members especially when
they are already financially constrained during economic downturns. Thus, regulators
should consider introducing some tools to measure and dampen procyclical behav-
ior of margins, such as through-the-cycle margin or countercyclical buffer, which are
typical of other financial regulations.



                                          24
     Second, we provide some evidence that the margin difference between CME
Group and Intercontinental Exchange is a statistically significant driver of margin
changes in the energy futures markets after other factor changes are controlled for,
implying that competition may be factored into margin setting. In fact, competition
can arise in other ways beyond margin levels. For example, CCPs can compete in
terms of acceptable collateral, haircut rates, or guaranty fund contributions. As com-
petition can make overall margin requirements inappropriately lax, regulators should
monitor market-wide margin decreases that cannot be justified by variations in risk
factors.
     At last, given that a substantial fraction of the margin variation is still unex-
plained by the risk factors that we consider in this paper, it is likely that CCPs may
account for qualitative or subjective factors such as market sentiment. The opaque
nature of margin changes may make it difficult for market participants to expect
and prepare for a future margin change. As unexpected margin changes can further
escalate procyclicality, it might be beneficial to increase the transparency of margin
determination to some degree.




                                         25
References
Andersen, T., T. Bollerslev, F. Diebold, and H. Ebens (2001): “The dis-
 tribution of realized stock return volatility,” Journal of Financial Economics, 61,
 43–76.

Andersen, T., T. Bollerslev, F. Diebold, and P. Labys (2003): “Modeling
 and forecasting realized volatility,” Econometrica, 71, 579–625.

Barndorff-Nielsen, O. E., and N. Shephard (2002): “Econometric analysis of
 realized volatility and its use in estimating stochastic volatility models,” Journal
 of Royal Statistical Society B, 64, 253–280.

        (2004): “Power and bipower variation with stochastic volatility and jumps,”
  Journal of Financial Econometrics, 2, 1–37.

BCBS and IOSCO (2013): “Margin requirements for non-centrally cleared deriva-
 tives,” Working paper, Bank for International Settlements.

Berndt, E., B. Hall, R. Hall, and J. Hausman (1974): “Estimation and infer-
 ence in nonlinear structural models,” Annals of Economic and Social Measurement,
 3, 653–665.

Brandt, M., and F. Diebold (2006): “A no-arbitrage approach to range-based
 estimation of return covariances and correlations,” Journal of Business, 79, 461–74.

Brandt, M., and C. Jones (2006): “Volatility forecasting with range-based
 EGARCH models,” Journal of Business and Economic Statistics, 24, 470–486.

Brunetti, C., and P. Lildholdt (2007): “Time series modeling of daily log-price
 ranges for CHF/USD and USD/GBP,” Journal of Derivatives, 15, 39–59.

Brunnermeier, M. K., and L. H. Pedersen (2009): “Market liquidity and fund-
 ing liquidity,” Review of Financial studies, 22(6), 2201–2238.

Committee on the Global Financial System (2010): “The role of margin
 requirements and haircuts in procyclicality,” Working paper, Bank for International
 Settlements.



                                         26
Cotter, J. (2001): “Margin exceedances for European stock index futures using
 extreme value theory,” Journal of Futures Markets, 25, 1475–1502.

Duffie, D., and H. Zhu (2011): “Does a central clearing counterparty reduce
 counterparty risk?,” Review of Asset Pricing Studies, 1(1), 74–95.

Fenn, G. W., and P. Kupiec (1993): “Prudential margin policy in a futures-style
 settlement system,” Journal of Futures Markets, 13, 389–408.

Figlewski, S. (1984): “Margins and market integrity: Margin setting for stock
  index futures and options,” Journal of Futures Markets, 4, 385–416.

Gay, G. D., W. C. Hunter, and R. W. Kolb (1986): “A comparative analysis
 of futures contract margins,” Journal of Futures Markets, 6, 307–324.

Hardouvelis, G., and D. Kim (1995): “Margin requirements, price fluctuations,
 and market participation in metal futures,” Journal of Money, Credit, and Banking,
 27, 659–671.

Hardouvelis, G. A. (1990): “Margin requirements, volatility, and the transitory
 component of stock prices,” American Economic Review, pp. 736–762.

Hardouvelis, G. A., and P. Theodossiou (2002): “The asymmetric relation
 between initial margin requirements and stock market volatility across bull and
 bear markets,” Review of Financial Studies, 15(5), 1525–1559.

Hsieh, D. A., and M. H. Miller (1990): “Margin regulation and stock market
 volatility,” Journal of Finance, 45(1), 3–29.

Ito, T., and W.-L. Lin (2001): “Race to the center: Competition for the Nikkei
  225 futures trade,” Journal of Empirical Finance, 8(3), 219–242.

Kupiec, P. H. (1989): “Initial margin requirements and stock returns volatility:
 Another look,” Journal of Financial Services Research, 3, 287–301.

Longin, F. (1999): “Optimal margin level in futures markets: Extreme price move-
 ments,” Journal of Futures Markets, 19, 127–152.




                                        27
Newey, W. K., and K. D. West (1987): “A simple positive semi-definite, het-
 eroskedasticity and autocorrelation consistent covariance matrix,” Econometrica,
 55, 703–708.

Parkinson, M. (1980): “The extreme value method for estimating the variance of
  the rate of return,” Journal of Business, 53, 61–65.

Salinger, M. A. (1989): “Stock market margin requirements and volatility: Im-
  plications for regulation of stock index futures,” Journal of Financial Services Re-
  search, 3(2), 121–138.

Santos, T., and J. A. Scheinkman (2001): “Competition among exchanges,”
  Quarterly Journal of Economics, 116(3), 1027–1061.

Schwert, G. W. (1989): “Margin requirements and stock volatility,” Journal of
  Financial Services Research, 3, 153–164.




                                         28
                                                      Table 1: Contract specifications
     This table presents specifications for each futures contract. Columns correspond to contract name organized in panels by asset class, the
     exchange that the contract is traded on, the contract size which is the unit the contract is traded in, the pricing unit (cents or dollars),
     and the pit trading hours. We choose the three most representative contracts across various asset classes traded on multiple exchanges,
     including CME (Chicago Mechantile Exchange), CBOT (Chicago Board of Trade), NYMEX (New York Mercantile Exchange), and COMEX
     (Commodity Exchange).

                              Contract name    Exchange           Contract size        Pricing unit   Pit trading hours

                              Panel A: Stock Index
                              S&P 500         CME                250 S&P 500              dollars         8:30-15:15
                              Nasdaq 100      CME               100 Nasdaq 100            dollars         8:30-15:15
                              Dow Jones       CBOT               10 Dow Jones             dollars         8:30-15:15

                              Panel B: Currency
                              pound           CME            62,500 British pounds        dollars         7:20-14:00
29                            euro            CME                 125,000 euros           dollars         7:20-14:00
                              yen             CME           12,500,000 Japanese yens      dollars         7:20-14:00

                              Panel C: Metal
                              gold           COMEX              100 troy ounces           dollars         8:20-13:30
                              silver         COMEX             5,000 troy ounces           cents          8:25-13:25
                              copper         COMEX               25,000 pounds             cents          8:10-13:00

                              Panel D: Energy
                              WTI           NYMEX                 1,000 barrels           dollars         9:00-14:30
                              RBOB          NYMEX                42,000 gallons           dollars         9:00-14:30
                              heat. oil     NYMEX                42,000 gallons           dollars         9:00-14:30

                              Panel E: Agriculture
                              corn            CBOT                5,000 bushels            cents          9:30-14:00
                              wheat           CBOT                5,000 bushels            cents          9:30-14:00
                              soybean         CBOT                5,000 bushels            cents          9:30-14:00
                                             Table 2: Summary statistics for margin changes

     This table presents summary statistics on margin changes for various futures contracts. Margin changes are defined as ∆ log Mt = log( MMt−1t
                                                                                                                                                  ),
     where Mt denotes the maintenance margin at time t. Note that while the margin changes are observed on a daily basis, they are nonzero
     only for a few days when margins are actually changed. These summary statistics are computed only using the nonzero margin changes. The
     margin data start at different dates for the various contracts included in our sample, but extend through July 2013 for all contracts. Columns
     correspond to contract name, the first date in the sample, the number of margin changes, the number of margin increases, the number of
     margin decreases, the average number of days between margin changes, the average margin increase, the average margin decrease, the smallest
     of the historical margin increases, and the smallest of the historical margin decreases, respectively.

      Contract          First       No. of     No. of      No. of        Avg. days       Avg. margin     Avg. margin       Smallest       Smallest
      name              date       changes    increases   decreases   between changes    increase (%)    decrease (%)    increase (%)   decrease (%)

      Panel A: Stock Index
      S&P 500     01/03/2000          14         6            8            311.0             11.4             -9.4           9.5            -1.6
      Nasdaq 100 01/03/2000           22         11          11            232.3             17.1            -22.1           4.7            -9.1
      Dow Jones   11/24/2003          15         9            6            211.0             15.1            -18.9           10.5           -5.6
30    Panel B: Currency
      pound      01/03/2000           53         23          30             93.2             22.2            -15.9           6.9            -6.9
      euro       01/02/2002           47         23          24             91.0             14.2            -11.4           2.7            -4.3
      yen        01/03/2000           68         27          41             72.9             23.7            -14.5           9.5            -4.9

      Panel C: Metal
      gold       01/08/2009           17         9           8             100.7             17.7            -12.2           5.7             -7.3
      silver     01/08/2009           25         16          9             64.3              12.6            -16.1           5.3             -6.5
      copper     01/08/2009           15         7           8             98.8              15.5            -18.1           7.8            -11.1

      Panel D: Energy
      WTI        01/12/2009           16         5           11            101.3             14.1            -10.9           9.1            -4.1
      RBOB       01/12/2009           16         7            9            96.5              24.3            -22.6           5.4            -8.7
      heat. oil  01/12/2009           16         5           11             98.8             29.4            -19.3           7.7            -6.5

      Panel E: Agriculture
      corn       11/24/2003           43         26          17             71.5             19.5            -20.4           5.1            -8.3
      wheat      11/24/2003           43         26          17             78.6             22.0            -25.9           6.9            -8.3
      soybean    11/24/2003           44         25          19             76.5             17.6            -17.6           6.5            -4.4
                        Table 3: Probability of margin shortfall

This table presents the probability of margin shortfall, or the probability that futures prices will vary
more than what is covered by the margin requirements over a one- or three-day close-out period.
Our computation of this probability is based on the assumption that futures returns follow a normal
distribution with mean zero and standard deviation measured by the exponentially weighted moving
average method. Also note that we compute the probability of margin shortfall only when margin
changes are actually made.

                            1-day close-out horizon                3-day close-out horizon
      Contract name      Mean(%) Min.(%) Max.(%)                Mean(%) Min.(%) Max.(%)

      Panel A: Stock Index
      S&P 500          0.03             0.00        0.20           1.37        0.00        4.85
      Nasdaq 100       0.12             0.00        0.56           2.62        0.00        7.17
      Dow Jones        0.05             0.00        0.31           1.58        0.00        5.73

      Panel B: Currency
      pound           1.05              0.02        3.05           8.57        1.96        13.96
      euro            1.00              0.01        3.22           8.23        1.66        14.27
      yen             0.39              0.00        2.65           5.04        0.14        13.19

      Panel C: Metal
      gold                  0.13        0.00        1.61           2.67        0.57        10.80
      silver                0.43        0.00        1.56           5.12        0.05        10.67
      copper                0.27        0.03        0.92           4.77        2.27         8.67

      Panel D: Energy
      WTI             0.66              0.02        2.25           6.44        1.99        12.35
      RBOB            1.14              0.13        7.68           7.97        4.07        20.50
      heat. oil       0.68              0.04        5.18           6.32        2.66        17.36

      Panel E: Agriculture
      corn             1.75             0.13        8.65          10.31        4.10        21.57
      wheat            1.79             0.01       10.49          9.86         1.26        23.45
      soybean          1.19             0.00        5.13           8.09        1.09        17.29




                                                   31
                Table 4: Correlations among the volatility proxies

This table shows correlations among the volatility proxies for various futures contracts. EW is
volatility estimated by the exponentially weighted moving average method, EGARCH is volatility
estimated by the range-based EGARCH model, RV is realized volatility. The starting date of the
sample varies across the contracts as shown in the Table 2, while the sample ends on July 31, 2013
for every contract. The data are obtained on a daily basis.

          Contract         corr(EW, EGARCH)         corr(EW, RV)   corr(EGARCH, RV)

          Panel A: Stock Index
          S&P 500              0.84                     0.89               0.92
          Nasdaq 100           0.91                     0.94               0.94
          Dow Jones            0.83                     0.90               0.91

          Panel B: Currency
          pound                     0.91                0.90               0.94
          euro                      0.92                0.87               0.95
          yen                       0.75                0.85               0.80

          Panel C: Metal
          gold                      0.72                0.83               0.86
          silver                    0.54                0.81               0.65
          copper                    0.75                0.93               0.81

          Panel D: Energy
          WTI                       0.90                0.93               0.96
          RBOB                      0.89                0.94               0.94
          heat. oil                 0.94                0.97               0.97

          Panel E: Agriculture
          corn                 0.72                     0.75               0.88
          wheat                0.65                     0.78               0.85
          soybean              0.79                     0.84               0.90




                                               32
                             Table 5: Determinants of margin levels

This table presents the results of the following linear regression of margin levels against volatility
and other control variables:
                  Mt = β0 + β1 EWMAt−2 + β2 EGARCHt−2 + β3 RVt−2 + β4 PRCt−2
                      + β5 JVt−2 + β6 VLMt−2 + β7 OIt−2 + β8 TEDt−2 + εt ,

where Mt is margin level, EWMAt is volatility estimated by the exponentially weighted moving
average method, EGARCHt is volatility estimated by the range-based EGARCH model, RVt is
realized volatility, PRCt is futures price, JVt is high-frequency-based jump variation, VLMt is trading
volume, OIt is open interest, and TEDt is the TED spread. Newey and West (1987) robust t statistics
with 10 lags are reported in parentheses, and * and ** stand for statistical significance at 95 and 99
percent confidence levels, respectively.

 Contract name    Constant    EWMA      EGARCH      RV        PRC         JV      VLM         OI        TED      R2

 Panel A: Stock Index
 S&P 500         319.38**      6.75**    -2.00*     -1.21     -3.44**   -1.49      -0.19    -6.76**    3.02**    0.54
                  (12.0)        (6.7)    (-2.3)     (-0.9)     (-4.5)   (-1.5)    (-0.4)      (-9.6)    (4.8)
 Nasdaq 100     -239.78**     38.11**   11.54**   -17.65**    34.66**   -1.34     8.47**    12.65**     -1.62    0.71
                  (-7.7)        (7.1)     (3.1)     (-2.8)     (13.6)   (-0.3)     (4.0)      (5.4)    (-1.1)
 Dow Jones      3285.92**     79.30**    -29.36     15.34    -97.51**   -1.91      -5.41   -142.98**   -13.45    0.71
                  (16.6)        (4.1)    (-1.4)     (0.5)      (-8.5)   (-0.1)    (-0.5)     (-10.9)   (-1.2)

 Panel B: Currency
 pound           -2.29**      0.50**      -0.07    0.17*      0.03      -0.06**   0.16**     0.06*     0.09**    0.84
                  (-6.7)      (10.0)     (-1.1)    (2.4)      (1.4)      (-2.7)    (5.7)     (2.3)      (4.4)
 euro           -10.77**      0.66**     -0.17*    0.05      0.07**       0.01    0.10**    0.25**      -0.01    0.85
                 (-16.6)      (15.4)     (-2.4)    (0.8)      (2.7)      (0.3)     (4.0)    (11.1)     (-0.2)
 yen             -1.94**      0.28**    -0.12**    0.05      0.49**      -0.02    0.13**    -0.06*      -0.01    0.78
                  (-3.5)       (7.1)     (-4.9)    (0.9)     (22.1)      (-0.8)    (5.3)    (-2.4)     (-0.5)

 Panel C: Metal
 gold              -38.68     17.17**    -1.88*   -3.83**    14.64**     0.14     -0.01     -0.07      -5.95**   0.89
                   (-0.7)       (9.4)    (-2.0)    (-3.0)     (30.6)    (0.2)     (-0.0)    (-0.1)      (-5.8)
 silver             -4.24      0.73**     -0.07   -0.25**    0.76**     -0.02     -0.05      0.04       -0.08    0.78
                   (-0.6)       (6.1)    (-1.3)    (-2.7)     (14.5)    (-0.2)    (-1.2)    (0.5)       (-1.3)
 copper             -0.17      0.04**     0.00     -0.00      0.02**    -0.00     0.00*      0.00        0.00    0.74
                   (-0.9)       (6.2)     (0.3)    (-0.3)      (8.2)    (-0.6)    (1.8)     (0.5)       (1.3)

 Panel D: Energy
 WTI             -11.41       1.08**     0.43*     -0.48*    0.79**     0.33**    -0.07*     0.11*     -0.14*    0.66
                 (-1.6)        (8.7)     (2.3)     (-2.4)     (7.3)      (3.8)    (-2.4)     (1.7)     (-1.7)
 RBOB            0.94**       0.02**     0.01*      -0.00    0.03**     -0.01*      0.00    -0.01**     -0.01    0.48
                  (4.2)        (3.2)     (2.5)     (-0.5)     (9.0)     (-1.9)     (0.6)     (-4.6)    (-1.5)
 heat. oil        -0.38       0.05**      0.00      -0.02    0.03**      0.00      0.00*      0.00      -0.00    0.49
                 (-1.0)        (6.2)     (0.1)     (-1.2)    (10.0)      (1.2)     (2.3)     (0.4)     (-0.9)

 Panel E: Agriculture
 corn            38.47**       3.93**     -0.63     -0.83    10.34**     0.34     1.20**    -1.64**     0.09     0.90
                   (3.4)        (9.9)    (-1.0)    (-1.2)     (28.0)     (0.7)     (5.2)     (-6.4)     (0.3)
 wheat           -62.62**     10.89**    -2.33*    -3.02*    9.79**     2.18**    3.41**     -0.55      0.77     0.87
                   (-4.3)       (9.9)    (-2.5)    (-2.4)     (10.2)     (2.6)     (5.6)     (-1.2)     (1.2)
 soybean          -69.64*     12.05**      1.13   -6.19**    15.01**     1.36     2.40**     -0.07      0.40     0.89
                   (-2.2)      (14.0)     (1.0)    (-4.0)     (18.6)     (1.6)     (5.1)     (-0.1)     (0.9)




                                                       33
                   Table 6: Determinants of censored margin changes
This table presents the results of the following Tobit regression of margin changes against volatility changes:
                               (
                                   0     if L < yt∗ < U
                  ∆ log Mt =
                                   yt∗   otherwise
                         yt∗ = β0 + β1 ∆h EWMAt−2 + β2 ∆h PRCt−2 + β3 ∆h JVt−2 + β4 ∆h VLMt−2
                            + β5 ∆h OIt−2 + β6 ∆h TEDt−2 + εt ,

where L < 0 and U > 0 are the lower threshold for margin decreases and the upper threshold for margin increases,
respectively; yt∗ is the latent margin change variable that is driven by changes in EWMA volatility and other control
variables; ∆h (·) denotes a difference operator over the lookback period h, that is, ∆h (·)t ≡ (·)t − (·)t−h ; Mt is margin
level; EWMAt is volatility estimated by the exponentially weighted moving average method; PRCt is futures price;
JVt is high-frequency-based jump variation; VLMt is trading volume; OIt is open interest; and TEDt is the TED
spread. The frequency of the data is daily. The t statistics are reported in parentheses, explanatory power is computed
by McFadden’s adjusted R2 , and * and ** stand for statistical significance at 95 and 99 percent confidence levels,
respectively.


       Contract name      Constant         ∆h EWMA        ∆h PRC   ∆h JV    ∆h VLM       ∆h OI    ∆h TED       R2

       Panel A: Stock Index
       S&P 500         3.77**                0.22**       -0.01*   -0.51*     -0.00      2.47        0.23     0.51
                        (31.0)                (3.1)       (-1.8)   (-2.0)     (-0.0)     (1.4)      (0.3)
       Nasdaq 100      -2.30**               0.41**        -0.00    0.21       0.04      0.12       1.39*     0.23
                       (-15.8)                (6.3)       (-1.5)    (1.2)     (0.2)      (0.2)      (1.8)
       Dow Jones       2.46**                0.50**        -0.00    0.10      -0.12      1.00       -1.24     0.41
                        (10.9)                (4.6)       (-1.6)    (0.3)     (-0.5)     (1.2)      (-1.3)

       Panel B: Currency
       pound            -0.17                1.07**        1.99    -0.88      -0.07       0.10      -0.20     0.09
                       (-1.4)                 (3.2)        (0.4)   (-1.4)     (-0.3)     (0.1)      (-0.2)
       euro           -0.91**                0.72**        2.75     0.09      -0.12      -0.53       0.00     0.08
                      (-13.7)                 (3.9)        (0.8)   (0.3)      (-0.7)     (-1.0)     (0.0)
       yen             2.23**                0.82**        5.09     0.80      0.52*      -0.36       0.81     0.18
                       (18.6)                 (4.0)        (0.6)   (1.6)      (2.6)      (-0.8)     (1.0)

       Panel C: Metal
       gold           -0.57**                0.39**        0.01    0.20        0.42      -4.62      6.72      0.34
                       (-3.0)                 (2.6)        (1.0)   (0.5)      (1.1)     (-0.9)      (1.1)
       silver          -0.27                 0.39**       0.32**   0.17        0.31      -3.66      2.97      0.22
                       (-1.6)                 (4.9)        (2.6)   (0.9)      (0.9)     (-0.8)      (0.6)
       copper         -1.66**                0.78**        -1.81   0.50       -0.38     14.76*      5.30      0.57
                       (-5.6)                 (3.7)       (-0.8)   (1.2)      (-0.5)     (2.0)      (0.6)

       Panel D: Energy
       WTI             2.31**                0.46**         0.03    0.21      1.32*      -8.91      -2.70     0.42
                        (11.1)                (3.7)        (0.5)   (0.9)      (2.2)      (-1.2)     (-0.4)
       RBOB            -1.64**               0.25*         4.45*    0.11       0.48       1.92       1.82     0.09
                        (-7.6)                (2.3)        (2.3)   (0.4)      (0.7)      (0.4)      (0.3)
       heat. oil        0.48*                0.57**         0.45   0.65*       0.46       0.47     -11.55*    0.04
                         (2.2)                (3.0)        (0.2)   (2.1)      (0.6)      (0.1)      (-1.7)

       Panel E: Agriculture
       corn            -1.40**               0.15**       0.01*     0.02       0.44       0.17      -0.47     0.10
                       (-10.3)                (2.6)        (1.7)   (0.2)      (1.4)      (0.0)      (-0.5)
       wheat           -0.58**               0.41**       0.02**   0.28*       0.21       3.65       0.64     0.04
                        (-3.8)                (4.5)        (4.1)   (2.1)      (0.7)      (0.9)      (0.6)
       soybean          1.14**               0.61**        0.01*   -0.00      -0.04      -2.27      -0.35     0.09
                        (10.6)                (7.9)        (1.9)   (-0.0)     (-0.2)     (-0.8)     (-0.5)




                                                              34
                Table 7: Determinants of trichotomous margin changes
This table presents the results of the following ordered trinomial Probit regression of trichotomous margin changes
against volatility changes:
                         
                         −1
                                   if yt∗ < L
                    Tt =   0        if L < yt∗ < U
                                    if yt∗ > U
                         
                           1
                         

                    yt∗ = β0 + β1 ∆h EWMAt−2 + β2 ∆h PRCt−2 + β3 ∆h JVt−2 + β4 ∆h VLMt−2
                       + β5 ∆h OIt−2 + β6 ∆h TEDt−2 + εt ,

where Tt denotes the trichotomous margin change variable; εt ∼ N (0, 1); L < 0 and U > 0 are the lower threshold for
margin decreases and the upper threshold for margin increases, respectively; yt∗ is the latent margin change variable
that is driven by changes in EWMA volatility and other control variables; ∆h (·) denotes a difference operator over
the lookback period h, that is, ∆h (·)t ≡ (·)t − (·)t−h ; EWMAt is volatility estimated by the exponentially weighted
moving average method; PRCt is futures price; JVt is high-frequency-based jump variation; VLMt is trading volume;
OIt is open interest; and TEDt is the TED spread. The frequency of the data is daily. The t statistics are reported in
parentheses, explanatory power is computed by McFadden’s adjusted R2 , and * and ** stand for statistical significance
at 95 and 99 percent confidence levels, respectively.


       Contract name     Constant       ∆h EWMA      ∆h PRC    ∆h JV     ∆h VLM      ∆h OI    ∆h TED       R2

       Panel A: Stock Index
       S&P 500          -0.12             0.15**      -0.00     -0.22      0.04      0.90       0.10      0.05
                        (-1.2)             (4.0)     (-1.6)     (-1.2)    (0.2)      (0.7)     (0.2)
       Nasdaq 100       -0.07             0.12**      -0.00      0.13      0.02      0.26       0.51      0.04
                        (-0.9)             (4.0)     (-0.4)     (1.5)     (0.2)      (0.9)     (1.4)
       Dow Jones        -0.01             0.17**     -0.00*     -0.07     -0.05      0.32      -0.31      0.05
                        (-0.1)             (4.2)     (-2.0)     (-0.4)    (-0.5)     (0.9)     (-0.8)

       Panel B: Currency
       pound            -0.06             0.49**      1.85      -0.34      0.04      -0.17      0.02     -0.00
                       (-1.2)              (4.0)     (0.8)      (-1.2)    (0.5)      (-0.6)    (0.1)
       euro             -0.04             0.81**     -0.90       0.11     -0.15      -0.20      0.29      0.04
                       (-0.8)              (6.4)     (-0.3)     (0.4)     (-1.1)     (-0.4)    (0.9)
       yen             -0.10*             0.24**      4.59      0.40*      0.08      -0.07     -0.07      0.01
                       (-2.2)              (3.6)     (1.4)      (2.1)     (1.1)      (-0.4)    (-0.2)

       Panel C: Metal
       gold                 0.02          0.12*       0.00      0.13       0.16      -1.47      2.74     -0.04
                           (0.2)           (2.0)     (0.4)      (0.7)     (0.9)      (-0.6)     (1.0)
       silver               0.11          0.13**     0.12*      0.04       0.02      -1.19      3.29      0.02
                           (1.3)           (4.0)     (2.4)      (0.6)     (0.1)      (-0.5)     (1.5)
       copper              -0.04          0.19**     -0.67      0.17      -0.19      4.27*      2.23      0.01
                           (-0.4)          (3.1)     (-0.9)     (1.4)     (-0.9)     (1.8)      (0.7)

       Panel D: Energy
       WTI             -0.18*             0.20**       0.02     0.01       0.40      -2.25      -4.11     0.01
                       (-1.8)              (3.8)      (0.7)     (0.1)     (1.4)      (-0.6)    (-1.3)
       RBOB             -0.05              0.06       1.35*     0.13      -0.05      -0.06      -2.61    -0.05
                       (-0.5)              (1.5)      (1.7)     (1.3)     (-0.2)     (-0.0)    (-0.9)
       heat. oil        -0.15              0.10        0.15     0.20       0.13       0.14     -5.22*    -0.04
                       (-1.5)              (1.1)      (0.1)     (1.6)     (0.4)      (0.1)     (-2.0)

       Panel E: Agriculture
       corn             0.06              0.06**      0.00       0.04      0.17       0.10     -0.27     -0.01
                        (1.0)              (3.3)      (1.4)     (0.6)     (1.3)      (0.1)     (-0.7)
       wheat            0.04              0.12**     0.00**     0.11*      0.04       0.44      0.21      0.05
                        (0.6)              (3.9)      (2.7)     (2.2)     (0.3)      (0.3)     (0.6)
       soybean          0.01              0.23**      0.00*     0.00      -0.06      -1.06     -0.14      0.04
                        (0.2)              (6.8)      (1.7)     (0.0)     (-0.4)     (-0.7)    (-0.4)



                                                         35
                               Table 8: Asymmetric margin changes

This table presents the results of the following Tobit regression of margin changes against the
                                                                                           −
volatility increases, ∆h EWMA+ t = max(∆h EWMAt , 0), and volatility decreases, ∆h EWMAt =
min(∆h EWMAt , 0):
                     (
                      0 if L < yt∗ < U
         ∆ log Mt =
                      yt∗ otherwise
                                               −        −
                  yt∗ = β0 + β1+ ∆h EWMA+
                                        t−2 + β1 ∆h EWMAt−2 + β2 ∆h PRCt−2 + β3 ∆h JVt−2
                    + β4 ∆h VLMt−2 + β5 ∆h OIt−2 + β6 ∆h TEDt−2 + εt ,

where L < 0 and U > 0 are the lower threshold for margin decreases and the upper threshold for
margin increases, respectively; yt∗ is the latent margin change variable that is driven by volatility
increases and decreases and changes in other control variables; Mt is margin level; EWMAt is
volatility estimated by the exponentially weighted moving average method; PRCt is futures price;
JVt is high-frequency-based jump variation; VLMt is trading volume; OIt is open interest; and TEDt
is the TED spread. The frequency of the data is daily. The t statistics are reported in parentheses,
explanatory power is computed by McFadden’s adjusted R2 , and * and ** stand for statistical
significance at 95 and 99 percent confidence levels, respectively.

  Contract name     Constant   ∆h EWMA+   ∆h EWMA−        ∆h PRC   ∆h JV    ∆h VLM    ∆h OI    ∆h TED   R2

  Panel A: Stock Index
  S&P 500         3.74**         0.23**     0.13          -0.01*   -0.49*     0.00    2.46      0.23    0.51
                   (21.8)         (3.0)     (0.4)         (-1.8)   (-1.8)    (0.0)    (1.4)    (0.3)
  Nasdaq 100      -2.32**        0.41**     0.38           -0.00    0.21      0.05    0.12     1.39*    0.23
                  (-11.6)         (5.8)     (1.4)         (-1.5)    (1.2)    (0.2)    (0.2)    (1.8)
  Dow Jones       2.59**         0.48**     0.89           -0.00    0.07     -0.14    0.98     -1.32    0.40
                    (8.9)         (4.3)     (1.6)         (-1.6)    (0.2)    (-0.6)   (1.1)    (-1.3)

  Panel B: Currency
  pound          -0.48**         1.70**     -0.83          3.20    -0.81     -0.02     0.02    -0.18    0.09
                  (-2.6)          (4.0)     (-0.9)         (0.6)   (-1.3)   (-0.1)    (0.0)    (-0.2)
  euro           -0.94**         0.79**      0.54          2.76     0.09     -0.11    -0.53     0.00    0.08
                  (-9.0)          (3.1)     (1.1)          (0.8)   (0.3)    (-0.7)    (-1.0)   (0.0)
  yen             2.02**         1.01**     -0.29          4.07     0.82    0.55**    -0.37     0.81    0.18
                  (10.8)          (4.2)     (-0.4)         (0.5)   (1.6)     (2.7)    (-0.8)   (1.0)

  Panel C: Metal
  gold               -0.44       0.36*      0.72           0.01    0.19       0.40     -4.53    5.95    0.34
                     (-1.5)       (2.1)     (1.1)         (1.0)    (0.5)     (1.0)    (-0.8)    (1.0)
  silver             -0.26       0.39**     0.41          0.32*    0.16       0.30     -3.63    2.92    0.22
                     (-0.9)       (4.2)     (1.4)         (2.5)    (0.9)     (0.8)    (-0.8)    (0.6)
  copper            -1.93**      0.88**     0.30          -1.48    0.54      -0.33    14.33*    6.09    0.57
                     (-4.1)       (3.6)     (0.4)         (-0.6)   (1.3)     (-0.4)    (2.0)    (0.6)

  Panel D: Energy
  WTI             1.51**         0.75**     -0.48          0.01     0.19     1.12*    -9.05     2.74    0.43
                   (4.7)          (5.2)     (-1.5)         (0.2)   (0.8)     (1.8)    (-1.2)   (0.4)
  RBOB            -1.81**        0.30*       0.03          4.40*    0.12      0.49     1.68     2.21    0.09
                   (-5.3)         (2.3)     (0.1)          (2.2)   (0.5)     (0.7)    (0.3)    (0.3)
  heat. oil        -0.05         0.88**     -0.28          1.14    0.62*      0.39    -0.84    -8.75    0.04
                   (-0.1)         (3.7)     (-0.6)         (0.5)   (2.0)     (0.5)    (-0.1)   (-1.3)

  Panel E: Agriculture
  corn            -1.20**         0.11      0.48*          0.01    0.01       0.39     0.54    -0.46    0.10
                   (-5.7)         (1.5)     (1.8)          (1.6)   (0.1)     (1.2)    (0.1)    (-0.5)
  wheat           -0.67**        0.44**      0.27         0.02**   0.29*      0.22     3.74     0.64    0.04
                   (-2.8)         (3.9)     (0.9)          (4.1)   (2.1)     (0.7)    (0.9)    (0.6)
  soybean          1.01**        0.66**      0.38         0.01*     0.00     -0.02    -2.27    -0.33    0.09
                    (5.8)         (6.8)     (1.4)          (2.0)   (0.0)     (-0.1)   (-0.8)   (-0.5)


                                                     36
                 Table 9: Impact of competition on margin changes

We define a margin difference between two competing CCPs as MRGN DIFFt ≡ log Mtown −
log Mtcomp − δ, where Mtown and Mtcomp denote a CCP’s own margin and its competitor’s margin,
respectively, and δ is subtracted to account for the fundamental difference in margins between the
two CCPs. This table presents the results of the following Tobit regression of margin changes against
a positive margin difference, MRGN DIFF+  t ≡ max(MRGN DIFFt , 0); a negative margin difference,
MRGN DIFF−     t ≡ min(MRGN DIFFt , 0); and changes in other risk factors such as volatility:
                        (
                          0 if L < yt∗ < U
           ∆ log Mt =
                          yt∗ otherwise
                                                 −          −
                  yt∗ = β0 + β1+ MRGN DIFF+
                                          t−2 + β1 MRGN DIFFt−2 + β2 ∆h EWMAt−2
                       + β3 ∆h PRCt−2 + β4 ∆h VLMt−2 + β5 ∆h OIt−2 + β6 ∆h TEDt−2 + εt .

where L < 0 and U > 0 are the lower threshold for margin decreases and the upper threshold for
margin increases, respectively; yt∗ is the latent margin change variable that is driven by the positive
and negative margin differences and changes in EWMA volatility and other control variables; ∆h (·)
denotes a difference operator over the lookback period h, that is, ∆h (·)t ≡ (·)t − (·)t−h ; Mt is margin
level; EWMAt is volatility estimated by the exponentially weighted moving average method; PRCt
is futures price; VLMt is trading volume; OIt is open interest; and TEDt is the TED spread. The
frequency of the data is daily. The t statistics are reported in parentheses, explanatory power is
computed by McFadden’s adjusted R2 , and * and ** stand for statistical significance at 95 and 99
percent confidence levels, respectively.

  Name      Constant   MRGN DIFF+    MRGN DIFF−     ∆h EWMA      ∆h PRC   ∆h VLM    ∆h OI    ∆h TED    R2

  Panel A: CME Group
  WTI       2.41**         -6.44*        -4.80*         0.55**     0.01    1.26*    -8.88      0.83    0.43
              (7.9)        (-2.1)        (-1.8)          (4.8)    (0.2)    (2.1)    (-1.2)    (0.1)
  RBOB      -1.29**        -5.61*         -0.10          0.28*    4.13*     0.47     1.82      1.89    0.09
             (-3.9)        (-1.7)        (-0.1)          (2.6)    (2.1)    (0.7)    (0.4)     (0.3)
  heat. oil  0.81**        -6.77*         -0.32         0.65**    0.03      0.58     0.14    -11.06*   0.04
              (2.8)        (-2.4)        (-0.2)          (3.6)    (0.0)    (0.7)    (0.0)     (-1.7)

  Panel B: ICE
  WTI       -0.60**        0.13           -0.74          0.03      0.00    -0.02    -0.01     0.52     0.27
             (-7.7)        (0.2)          (-0.9)         (0.8)    (0.1)    (-0.3)   (-0.1)    (0.3)
  RBOB       1.17**        1.58         -10.94**        -0.20*   3.76**     0.14     0.29     8.26*    0.26
              (4.8)        (1.3)          (-4.0)        (-2.4)    (2.8)    (1.0)    (1.2)     (2.2)
  heat. oil  0.43**        0.03          -3.24**         0.14*    -0.63     0.02     0.04     1.37     0.08
              (3.6)        (0.0)          (-2.8)         (2.1)   (-0.7)    (0.2)    (0.2)     (0.6)




                                                   37
                         SP500                                                             SP500
     120                                                    100        120                                                   2000
                                        Margin, left                                                          Margin, left
                                        Volatility, right                                                     Price, right
                                                            80
     100                                                               100
                                                                                                                             1500
                                                            60
      80                                                               80
                                                            40
                                                                                                                             1000
      60                                                               60
                                                            20


      40                                                    0          40                                                    500
      Jan00   Jan03    Jan06        Jan09      Jan12                   Jan00    Jan03    Jan06        Jan09      Jan12



                       Nasdaq100                                                         Nasdaq100
     500                                                    80         500                                                   5000
                                        Margin, left                                                          Margin, left
                                        Volatility, right                                                     Price, right
     400                                                               400                                                   4000
                                                            60

     300                                                               300                                                   3000
                                                            40
     200                                                               200                                                   2000

                                                            20
     100                                                               100                                                   1000


       0                                                    0            0                                                   0
      Jan00   Jan03    Jan06        Jan09      Jan12                    Jan00   Jan03    Jan06        Jan09      Jan12



                                                                                                                                   4
                        Dow Jones                                                         Dow Jones                          x 10
    1600                                                    80     1600                                                       1.6
                                        Margin, left                                                          Margin, left
    1400                                Volatility, right          1400                                       Price, right
                                                                                                                             1.4
    1200                                                    60     1200

    1000                                                           1000                                                      1.2
     800                                                    40         800

     600                                                               600                                                   1

     400                                                    20         400
                                                                                                                             0.8
     200                                                               200

       0                                                    0           0                                                    0.6
      Nov03   Nov05   Nov07    Nov09        Nov11                      Nov03    Nov05   Nov07    Nov09        Nov11



Figure 1: Relations of margin to volatility (left panel) and to futures price
(right panel) for stock index futures
The left panels compare maintenance margin level (solid line) to EWMA volatility (dashed
line), and the right panels compare maintenance margin level (solid line) to the futures price
(dashed line) for CME Group’s stock index futures. The top, middle, and bottom panels
correspond to the S&P 500 index, the Nasdaq 100, and the Dow Jones futures, respectively.


                                                                  38
                         Pound                                                         Pound
     0.08                                                30        0.08                                               2.5
                                     Margin, left                                                      Margin, left
                                     Volatility, right                                                 Price, right

     0.06                                                          0.06
                                                         20                                                           2

     0.04                                                          0.04

                                                         10                                                           1.5
     0.02                                                          0.02



       0                                                 0           0                                                1
      Jan00   Jan03    Jan06     Jan09      Jan12                   Jan00   Jan03    Jan06     Jan09      Jan12



                          Yen                                                           Yen
     0.06                                                25        0.06                                               1.5
                                     Margin, left                                                      Margin, left
                                     Volatility, right                                                 Price, right

                                                         20
     0.04                                                          0.04

                                                         15                                                           1

     0.02                                                          0.02
                                                         10



       0                                                 5           0                                                0.5
      Jan00   Jan03    Jan06     Jan09      Jan12                   Jan00   Jan03    Jan06     Jan09      Jan12



                          Euro                                                          Euro
     0.05                                                26        0.05                                               1.8
                                     Margin, left                                                      Margin, left
                                     Volatility, right                                                 Price, right
                                                         22
     0.04                                                          0.04

                                                         18                                                           1.4
     0.03                                                          0.03
                                                         14
     0.02                                                          0.02
                                                         10                                                           1

     0.01                                                          0.01
                                                         6

       0                                                 2           0                                                0.6
      Jan02    Jan05     Jan08       Jan11                          Jan02    Jan05     Jan08       Jan11



Figure 2: Relations of margin to volatility (left panel) and to futures price
(right panel) for currency futures
The left panels compare maintenance margin level (solid line) to EWMA volatility (dashed
line), and the right panels compare maintenance margin level (solid line) to the futures
price (dashed line) for CME Group’s currency futures. The top, middle, and bottom panels
correspond to the British pound, the Japanese yen, and the euro futures, respectively.


                                                              39
                         Gold                                                          Gold
    100                                                  40        100                                                2500
                                     Margin, left                                                      Margin, left
                                     Volatility, right   35                                            Price, right

                                                                                                                      2000
                                                         30
     75                                                            75
                                                         25
                                                                                                                      1500
                                                         20
     50                                                            50
                                                         15
                                                                                                                      1000
                                                         10

     25                                                  5         25                                                 500
     Jan09    Jan10   Jan11      Jan12     Jan13                   Jan09    Jan10   Jan11      Jan12      Jan13



                        Silver                                                        Silver
      5                                                  80         5                                                 60
                                     Margin, left                                                      Margin, left
                                     Volatility, right                                                 Price, right
      4                                                             4
                                                         60
                                                                                                                      40
      3                                                             3
                                                         40
      2                                                             2
                                                                                                                      20
                                                         20
      1                                                             1


      0                                                  0           0                                                0
     Jan09    Jan10   Jan11      Jan12     Jan13                    Jan09   Jan10   Jan11      Jan12      Jan13



                        Copper                                                        Copper
     0.3                                                 70        0.3                                                6
                                     Margin, left                                                      Margin, left
                                     Volatility, right                                                 Price, right
                                                                                                                      5
    0.25                                                       0.25
                                                         50
                                                                                                                      4
     0.2                                                           0.2
                                                                                                                      3
                                                         30
    0.15                                                       0.15
                                                                                                                      2


     0.1                                                 10        0.1                                                1
      Jan09   Jan10   Jan11      Jan12     Jan13                    Jan09   Jan10   Jan11      Jan12      Jan13



Figure 3: Relations of margin to volatility (left panel) and to futures price
(right panel) for metal futures
The left panels compare maintenance margin level (solid line) to EWMA volatility (dashed
line), and the right panels compare maintenance margin level (solid line) to the futures
price (dashed line) for CME Group’s metal futures. The top, middle, and bottom panels
correspond to gold, silver, and copper futures, respectively.


                                                              40
                          WTI                                                             WTI
      8                                                  100          8                                                 140
                                     Margin, left                                                        Margin, left
                                     Volatility, right                                                   Price, right
      7                                                  80           7

                                                                                                                        100
      6                                                  60           6


      5                                                  40           5
                                                                                                                        60

      4                                                  20           4


       3                                                 0            3                                                 20
      Jan09   Jan10   Jan11      Jan12      Jan13                    Jan09    Jan10   Jan11      Jan12      Jan13



                         RBOB                                                            RBOB
    0.25                                                 100        0.25                                                4
                                     Margin, left                                                        Margin, left
                                     Volatility, right                                                   Price, right
                                                         80
     0.2                                                             0.2
                                                                                                                        3
                                                         60
    0.15                                                            0.15
                                                         40
                                                                                                                        2
     0.1                                                             0.1
                                                         20


    0.05                                                 0          0.05                                                1
      Jan09   Jan10   Jan11      Jan12      Jan13                     Jan09   Jan10   Jan11      Jan12      Jan13



                       Heating Oil                                                     Heating Oil
     0.2                                                 80          0.2                                                4
                                     Margin, left                                                        Margin, left
                                     Volatility, right                                                   Price, right

                                                         60
    0.15                                                            0.15                                                3

                                                         40

     0.1                                                             0.1                                                2
                                                         20



    0.05                                                 0          0.05                                                1
      Jan09   Jan10   Jan11      Jan12      Jan13                     Jan09   Jan10   Jan11      Jan12      Jan13



Figure 4: Relations of margin to volatility (left panel) and to futures price
(right panel) for energy futures
The left panels compare maintenance margin level (solid line) to EWMA volatility (dashed
line), and the right panels compare maintenance margin level (solid line) to the futures
price (dashed line) for CME Group’s energy futures. The top, middle, and bottom panels
correspond to WTI crude oil, RBOB gasoline, and heating oil futures, respectively.


                                                               41
                        Corn                                                            Corn
     60                                                    70        60                                               1000
                                       Margin, left                                                    Margin, left
                                       Volatility, right                                               Price, right
                                                                                                                      800

     40                                                    50        40
                                                                                                                      600


                                                                                                                      400
     20                                                    30        20

                                                                                                                      200


      0                                                    10         0                                               0
     Nov03   Nov05   Nov07     Nov09      Nov11                      Nov03   Nov05   Nov07     Nov09   Nov11



                        Wheat                                                           Wheat
     100                                                   70        100                                              1400
                                       Margin, left                                                    Margin, left
                                       Volatility, right                                               Price, right
     80                                                              80
                                                                                                                      1100
                                                           50
     60                                                              60
                                                                                                                      800
     40                                                              40
                                                           30
                                                                                                                      500
     20                                                              20


      0                                                    10         0                                               200
     Nov03   Nov05   Nov07     Nov09      Nov11                      Nov03   Nov05   Nov07     Nov09   Nov11



                       Soybeans                                                        Soybeans
     100                                                   60        100                                              2500
                                       Margin, left                                                    Margin, left
                                       Volatility, right                                               Price, right
     80                                                    50        80                                               2000


     60                                                    40        60                                               1500


     40                                                    30        40                                               1000


     20                                                    20        20                                               500


      0                                                    10         0                                               0
     Nov03   Nov05   Nov07     Nov09      Nov11                      Nov03   Nov05   Nov07     Nov09   Nov11



Figure 5: Relations of margin to volatility (left panel) and to futures price
(right panel) for agriculture futures
The left panels compare maintenance margin level (solid line) to EWMA volatility (dashed
line), and the right panels compare maintenance margin level (solid line) to the futures price
(dashed line) for CME Group’s agriculture futures. The top, middle, and bottom panels
correspond to corn, wheat and soybean futures, respectively.


                                                                42
                  70


                  60


                  50




      Frequency
                  40


                  30


                  20


                  10


                   0
                  −100   −80   −60   −40     −20       0     20   40      60      80
                                           Margin change (%)

Figure 6: Histogram of margin changes for all futures contracts
This figure plots the frequency of margin changes for all futures contracts. It can be seen
that most of the margin changes are concentrated in the ranges of plus and minus 10 to 25
percent and that there are very few observations of small margin changes.




                                               43
                                                                                                    stock index
                                                                                                    currency
                                                                                                    metal
                                                                                                    energy
                                                                                                    agriculture




      Mean of probability of margin shortfall (%)
                                                     0
                                                    10




                                                     −1
                                                    10




                                                     −2
                                                    10
                                                                90                           270
                                                          Average number of days between margin changes

Figure 7: Average probability of margin shortfall versus the average number
of days between margin changes across different futures contracts
The figure shows a scatter plot of the average number of days between margin changes
against the mean of 1-day probability of margin shortfall. This scatter plot indicates that
there is a negative relation between these variables. That is, the higher the probability of
margin shortfall the smaller the average number of days between margin changes.




                                                                            44
                                          WTI
                9
                                                             CME Margin
                8                                            ICE Margin

                7

                6

                5

                4

                3
               Jan09      Jan10       Jan11          Jan12    Jan13


                                         RBOB
             0.25
                                                             CME Margin
                                                             ICE Margin
              0.2


             0.15


              0.1


             0.05
               Jan09      Jan10       Jan11          Jan12    Jan13


                                       Heating Oil
             0.25
                                                             CME Margin
                                                             ICE Margin
              0.2


             0.15


              0.1


             0.05
               Jan09      Jan10       Jan11          Jan12    Jan13



Figure 8: Comparison of energy futures margins between CME Group and
ICE
This figure compares maintenance margin levels between CME Group and ICE for the
energy futures contracts. The top, middle, and bottom panels correspond to WTI crude
oil, RBOB gasoline, and heating oil futures. The solid and dashed lines of each panel
correspond to CME Group and ICE, respectively.




                                         45
