               Finance and Economics Discussion Series
       Divisions of Research & Statistics and Monetary Affairs
              Federal Reserve Board, Washington, D.C.




                                       Flights to Safety




  Lieven Baele, Geert Bekaert, Koen Inghelbrecht, and Min Wei

                                               2014-46



   NOTE: Staff working papers in the Finance and Economics Discussion Series (FEDS) are preliminary
materials circulated to stimulate discussion and critical comment. The analysis and conclusions set forth
are those of the authors and do not indicate concurrence by other members of the research staff or the
Board of Governors. References in publications to the Finance and Economics Discussion Series (other than
acknowledgement) should be cleared with the author(s) to protect the tentative character of these papers.
                               Flights to Safety*

           Lieven Baele1           Geert Bekaert2            Koen Inghelbrecht3
                                         Min Wei4

                                           June 2014

                                         Abstract
Using only daily data on bond and stock returns, we identify and characterize flight
to safety (FTS) episodes for 23 countries. On average, FTS days comprise less than
3% of the sample, and bond returns exceed equity returns by 2.5 to 4%. The majority
of FTS events are country-specific not global. FTS episodes coincide with increases
in the VIX and the Ted spread, decreases in consumer sentiment indicators and
appreciations of the Yen, Swiss franc, and US dollar. The financial, basic materials
and industrial industries under-perform in FTS episodes, but the telecom industry
outperforms. Money market instruments, corporate bonds, and commodity prices
(with the exception of metals, including gold) face abnormal negative returns in
FTS episodes. Hedge funds, especially those belonging to the “event-driven” styles,
display negative FTS betas, after controlling for standard risk factors. Liquidity
deteriorates on FTS days both in the bond and equity markets. Both economic
growth and inflation decline right after and up to a year following a FTS spell.

   JEL Classification: G11, G12, G14, E43, E44
   Keywords: Flight-to-Safety, Flight-to-Quality, Stock-Bond Return Correlation,
Liquidity, Hedge Funds
    * The authors greatly benefited from discussions with seminar participants at Antwerp Uni-
versity, the National Bank of Belgium, the University of the Basque Country, Tilburg University,
the Spring 2014 Inquire Europe-UK conference in Vienna, and the 2014 Bank of Canada/Banco de
España Workshop on “International Financial Markets”, and in particular with Hans Dewachter,
Frank de Jong, Joost Driessen, Eric Ghysels, Campbell Harvey, Philippe Mueller, Laurens Swinkels
and Allan Timmermann. Baele, Bekaert, and Inghelbrecht gratefully acknowledge financial support
from the National Bank of Belgium and Inquire Europe. Bekaert acknowledges financial support
from Netspar. The opinions expressed are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect views
of the National Bank of Belgium or the Federal Reserve System.
    1
      Finance Department, CentER, Tilburg University. E-mail: Lieven.Baele@uvt.nl
    2
      Graduate School of Business, Columbia University, and NBER. E-mail: gb241@columbia.edu
    3
      Department Financial Economics, Ghent University. E-mail: Koen.Inghelbrecht@UGent.be
    4
        Federal Reserve Board of Governors, Division of Monetary Aﬀairs, Washington DC. Email:
min.wei@frb.gov
1    Introduction
In periods of market stress, the financial press interprets extreme and inverse market
movements in the bond and equity markets often as “flights to safety” or “flights to
quality.” In particular, between August 2004 and June 2012, a period marred by
a global financial crisis, the Financial Times referred 805 times to “Flight(s)-to-
Quality” and 533 times to “Flight(s)-to-Safety.”
     There is an active theoretical academic literature studying such phenomena.
In Vayanos (2004)’s model, risk averse investment managers fear redemptions dur-
ing high volatility periods and therefore an increase in volatility may lead to a
“flight-to-liquidity.” At the same time, their risk aversion also increases, leading to
a “flight-to-safety,” meaning that they require higher risk premiums, which in turn
drives down the prices of risky assets (a flight to quality). In Caballero and Krishna-
murthy (2008), Knightian uncertainty may lead agents to shed risky assets in favor
of uncontingent and safe claims when aggregate liquidity is low thereby provoking
a flight to quality or safety. Brunnermeier and Pedersen (2009) study a model in
which speculators, who provide market liquidity, have margin requirements increas-
ing in volatility. They show how margin requirements can help cause a liquidity
spiral following a bad shock, where liquidity deteriorates in all markets, but also
a flight to quality, which they define as a sharp drop in liquidity provision for the
high margin, more volatile assets. Representative agent models can also generate
“flights-to-safety.” In the consumption based asset pricing literature (e.g. Barsky
(1989); Bekaert, Engstrom, and Xing (2009)) a flight to safety is typically defined
as the joint occurrence of higher economic uncertainty (viewed as exogenous) with
lower equity prices (through a cash flow and/or risk premium eﬀect) and low real
rates (through a precautionary savings eﬀect).
     These articles seem to treat flights to quality, safety and/or liquidity as Justice
Potter treated porn: we know it when we see it. However, to be able to test and
refute a diverse set of theoretical models, an empirical characterization of flight to
safety episodes would appear essential. The goal of our paper is to define, detect and
characterize flight-to-safety episodes for 23 countries. In doing so, we use only daily
data on the prototypical risky asset (a well-diversified equity index) and the proto-
typical safe and liquid asset (the benchmark Treasury bond). Beber, Brandt, and
Kavajecz (2009) use the Euro-area government bond market to show that in times
of market stress, investors demand liquidity rather than credit quality. Longstaﬀ
(2004), focusing on the US Treasury market, shows that the liquidity premium in
Treasury bonds can represent up to 15% of their value. In other words, flights to
safety may be as much or more about flights to liquidity than about flights to qual-

                                           1
ity. It is therefore important to focus on a liquid bond benchmark in our work. To
define a flight to safety, referred to as FTS henceforth, we use the simple criteria that
it happens during periods of market stress (high equity market volatility), entails
a large and positive bond return, a large and negative equity return, and negative
high-frequency correlations between bond and stock returns. Note that stock and
bond returns are likely positively correlated outside the flights-to-safety periods as
both represent high duration assets. Negative aggregate demand shocks may also
entail negative stock-bond return correlations but will only be identified as FTS
when accompanied by substantial market stress.
    We use a plethora of econometric techniques, detailed in Sections 2.2 and 2.3,
to identify flight-to-safety episodes from these features. In Section 2.4, we then
analyze the identified flight to safety episodes in 23 countries in more detail. We
find that FTS episodes comprise less than 3% of the sample on average, and bond
returns exceed equity returns by about 2.5 to 4% on FTS days. Only a minority
of FTS events can be characterized as global (less than 25% for most countries).
About 89% of FTS days lasts 3 days or less, but a small fraction lasts longer than
10 days. In section 2.5, we show that FTS episodes coincide with increases in the
VIX and the TED spread, decreases in consumer sentiment indicators in the US,
Germany and the OECD and appreciations of the so-called “safe-haven” currencies
– the yen, the Swiss franc, and the US dollar. In section 3, we characterize the
dynamic cross-correlations between flights to safety and the financial and economic
environment. We compute flight to safety betas for equity and bond portfolios and
for commodity futures contracts, controlling for systematic exposures to the broad
equity and bond markets. The financial, basic materials and industrial industries
under-perform in FTS episodes, whereas the telecom industry outperforms. Large
cap stocks outperform small cap stocks. For the bond market, we find that both
money market instruments and corporate bonds face abnormal negative returns
during FTS episodes. Most commodity prices decrease sharply during FTS episodes,
whereas precious metal and gold prices measured in dollars increase slightly. Turning
to the macro-economy, both economic growth and inflation decline right after and up
to a year following a FTS spell. As an application of our methodology, we examine
in section 4 whether hedge funds “hedge” FTS-events, with the disappointing finding
that nearly all hedge fund styles, the event-driven ones in particular, have negative
FTS betas.
    There are, of course, a number of empirical papers that bear some indirect re-
lation to what we attempt to accomplish. Baele, Bekaert, and Inghelbrecht (2010)
show that a dynamic factor model with standard fundamental factors fails to pro-


                                           2
vide a satisfactory fit for stock and bond return comovements. The ability of the
model to capture episodes of negative stock-bond return correlations only improves
when stock-bond illiquidity factors (potentially capturing “flight-to-liquidity”) and
the VIX (potentially capturing “flight-to-safety”) are included. Connolly, Stivers,
and Sun (2005) and Bansal, Connolly, and Stivers (2010) show that higher stock
market uncertainty is associated with lower correlations between stock and bond
returns and higher bond returns. Goyenko and Sarkissian (2012) define a flight to
liquidity and/or quality using illiquidity in short-term (non-benchmark) US Trea-
suries and show that it aﬀects future stock returns around the globe. Baur and
Lucey (2009) define a flight to quality as a period in which stock and bond returns
decrease in a falling stock market and diﬀerentiate it from contagion, where asset
markets move in the same direction. They define the 1997 Asian crisis and the 1998
Russian crisis as flight to safety episodes. The recent financial crisis also sparked a
literature on indicators of financial instability and systemic risk which are indirectly
related to our flight to safety indicator. The majority of those articles use data
from the financial sector only (see e.g. Acharya, Pedersen, Philippon, and Richards
(2012); Adrian and Brunnermeier (2011); Allen, Bali, and Tang (2012); Brownlees
and Engle (2011)), but Hollo, Kremer, and Lo Duca (2012) use a wider set of stress
indicators and we revisit their methodology in Section 2.2.2.


2     Identifying Flight-to-Safety Episodes
2.1    Data and Overview
Our dataset consists of daily stock and 10-year government bond returns for 23
countries over the period January 1980 till January 2012. Our sample includes
two countries from North-America (US, Canada), 18 European countries (Austria,
Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Finland, Germany, Greece, Ireland,
Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, UK), as
well as Australia, Japan, and New-Zealand. We use Datastream International’s total
market indices to calculate daily total returns denominated in local currency, and
their 10-year benchmark bond indices to calculate government bond returns. For
countries in the euro zone, we use returns denominated in their original (pre-1999)
currencies (rather than in synthetic euros), with German government bonds serving
as the benchmark. For the other European countries, local government bonds serve
as benchmark bonds. More details as well as the summary statistics can be found
in the online Appendix.


                                           3
2.2     Measures of Flights to Safety
Our goal is to use only these daily bond and stock return data to identify a flight-to-
safety episode. That is, ultimately we seek to create a {0, 1}-FTS dummy variable
that identifies whether on a particular day a FTS took place. Given the theoretical
literature, the symptoms of a flight to safety are rather easy to describe: market
stress (high equity and perhaps bond return volatility), simultaneous high bond
and low equity returns, and a low (negative) correlation between bond and equity
returns. We use 4 diﬀerent methodologies to calculate FTS measures or probabilities,
numbers in the interval [0, 1] that reflect the likelihood of a FTS occurring that day.
The first methodology directly turns the incidence of (a subset of) the symptoms
into a {0, 1}-FTS dummy, with 1 indicating an FTS episode and 0 otherwise. The
second methodology delivers a continuous signal in [0, 1] that is converted into a FTS
probability. The last two use regime switching models to identify the probability
of a flight to safety. These probabilities can be converted into FTS dummies using
certain classification rules. In the following sub-sections, we detail these various
approaches in calculating FTS probabilities, whereas section 2.3 discusses how to
aggregate the 4 diﬀerent FTS probabilities into one aggregate FTS dummy.

2.2.1   A Flight-to-Safety Threshold Model

Our simplest measure identifies a flight-to-safety event as a day with both an (ex-
treme) negative stock return and an (extreme) positive bond return. The flight-to-
safety measure F T S for country i at time t is calculated as:
                                   { b         }   { s          }
                       F T Si,t = I ri,t > zi,b × I ri,t < zi,s                    (2.1)

                                          b         s
where I is the indicator function and ri,t     and ri,t the time-t returns for country
i in its benchmark government bond and equity market, respectively. We allow
for country-specific thresholds zi,b and zi,s . Because flights-to-safety are typically
associated with large drops (increases) in equity (bond) prices, we use thresholds to
model zi,b and zi,s :

                      zi,b = κ × σi,b,t        zi,s = −κ × σi,s,t                  (2.2)

where σi,b,t and σi,s,t are the country-specific, time-varying volatilities for bond and
stock returns at time t, respectively, and κ is the threshold parameter. Consequently,
equity (bond) returns must be κ standard deviations below (above) zero before we
identify a day to be a FTS day.


                                           4
   We allow for low-frequency changes in equity and bond market volatilities and
covariances, and model them using a simple kernel method. Given any date t0 in a
sample t = 1, .., T , the kernel method calculates stock and bond return variances at
the normalized date τ = t0 /T ∈ (0, 1) as:

                                    ∑T
                                     t=1 Kh (t/T − τ ) ri,t ,
                            2                           2
                           σi,τ =                                i = s, b

where Kh (z) = K (z/h) /h is the kernel with bandwidth h > 0. The kernel deter-
mines how the diﬀerent observations are weighted. We use a two-sided Gaussian
kernel with bandwidths of 250 days (expressed as a fraction of the total sample size
T ):                                          ( 2)
                                       1        z
                             K (z) = √ exp
                                       2π        2
Thus, the bandwidth can be viewed as the standard deviation of the distribution,
and determines how much weight is given to returns either in the distant past or
future. For instance, for a bandwidth of 250 days, it takes ±320 days to cover
90% of the probability mass1 . We use a two-sided symmetric kernel rather than a
one-sided and/or non-symmetric kernel because, in general, the bias from two-sided
symmetric kernels is lower than for one-sided filters (see e.g. Ang and Kristensen
(2012)). The time-varying covariances are calculated similarly.
    Once the matrix of volatilities and covariances is determined for each country,
the incidence of FTS under the threshold model depends on the magnitude of the
threshold parameter κ, with the number of FTS days decreasing rapidly from about
¼ of the sample for κ = 0 to generally less than 0.5% for κ = 2. To benchmark these
numbers we conduct a simulation experiment. Imagine that bond and stock returns
are normally distributed with their standard deviations and correlations equal to the
estimates described above; the means are set at their full-sample means. That is,
we draw from a bivariate normal distribution with country- and time-specific second
moments. In such a world, we would expect flights to safety to be rarer than in the
real world with fat tails and negative skewness.
    In Figure 1, we plot the percentage of FTS events both in the actual data and
in the simulated data, as a function of κ. This percentage of FTS events is first
computed for each country and then averaged across countries. For a low κ, the
simulated data from the bivariate normal distribution generates more FTS events
than the actual data. The curves intersect for κ = 1.398. For our subsequent work
we select κ to be 1.5. At this threshold parameter, 0.79% of all days are FTS days,
compared to 0.72% in the bivariate normal world. To get a sense of what happens
  1
      To ensure that the weights sum to one in a finite sample, we divide by their sum.


                                                 5
on such extreme days, we also compute the average diﬀerence between bond and
equity returns on flight to safety days. This return impact, averaged over the various
countries, is also graphed in Figure 1 (see right hand side for the units). It increases
from 1.20% for κ = 0 to 3.12% for κ = 1 to more than 5.6% for κ = 2. For κ = 1.5,
the return impact is 4.26%.

2.2.2   Ordinal FTS Index

While the threshold methodology only uses stock and bond returns, our second
methodology employs 6 variables that are correlated with a FTS occurrence either
positively (+) or negatively (-) and for which we can define natural boundary values
beyond which they can be viewed as exhibiting “mild FTS-symptoms”:

  1. The diﬀerence between the bond and stock returns (+; FTS symptom if ≥ 0)

  2. The diﬀerence between the bond and stock returns, relative to its long-term
     moving average (+; FTS symptom if ≥ 0)

  3. The short-term stock-bond return correlation (-; FTS symptom if ≤ 0)

  4. The diﬀerence between the short and long-term stock-bond return correlation
     (-; FTS symptom if ≤ 0)

  5. The short-term equity return volatility (+; FTS symptom if more than one
     standard deviation above its unconditional value, that is, larger than double
     the unconditional standard deviation)

  6. The diﬀerence between the short and long-term equity return volatility (+;
     FTS symptom if ≥ 0)

Most of these variables are self explanatory. We measure short- and long-term vari-
ables using the same kernel method as described in Section 2.2.1 with a bandwidth
of 5 and 250 days, respectively. For a bandwidth of 5 days, about 90% of the proba-
bility mass is allocated to observations ±6 days away from the current observation.
The long-term estimates are designed to capture low-frequency variations in asset
returns and comovement due to changes in the macro-economic environment.
    To come up with a FTS dummy based on this information, we proceed in two
steps. First, we create a composite “ordinal” index defined on the [0,1] interval, based
on the 6 variables. Second, we transform this index into a FTS probability, our actual
FTS measure, incorporating information about whether the “weak” symptoms are
satisfied or not.


                                           6
    To create the composite index, we combine observations on the 6 FTS-sensitive
variables using the “ordinal” approach developed in Hollo, Kremer, and Lo Duca
(2012), who propose a composite measure of systemic stress in the financial system.
As a first step, we rank the observations in ascending (descending) order according
to the variables that increase (decrease) with the likelihood of a FTS, such as the
diﬀerence between bond and stock returns, both in itself and relative to its 250-day
moving average, short-term equity market volatility, and the diﬀerence between short
and long-term equity market volatility (the short-term stock-bond correlation, the
diﬀerence between the short- and long-term stock bond correlations). Next, for each
of the 6 variables, we replace each observation by its ranking number normalized by
the total number of observations, so that values close to one (zero) are associated
with a larger (lower) likelihood of FTS. For instance, a value of 0.95 at time t0 for,
say, short-term equity return volatility means that only 5 percent of observations
over the full sample have a short-term equity volatility that is larger or equal than the
time t0 value. Finally, for each point in time, we take the average of the normalized
ordinal numbers across the 6 FTS variables2 .
    The ordinal approach yields numbers for each variable that can be interpreted
as a cumulative density function probability, but it does not tell us necessarily the
probability of a flight to safety. For example, numbers very close to 1 such as
0.99 and 0.98 strongly suggest the occurrence of a FTS, but whether a number of
say 0.80 represents a FTS or not is not immediately clear. Despite the imperfect
correlation between the diﬀerent variables, the maximum ordinal numbers for the
composite index are quite close to 1 for all 23 countries, varying between 0.9775
and 0.9996. To transform these ordinal numbers into a FTS ordinal probability,
we first collect the ordinal numbers of the days that satisfy all the “mild” FTS
symptoms defined above. We view the minimum of this set of ordinal index values
as a threshold. All observations with an ordinal number below this threshold get
a FTS ordinal measure value equal to zero. It would appear unlikely that such
days can be characterized as flights to safety. For observations with an ordinal
number above the threshold, we set the FTS ordinal measure equal to one minus
the percentage of “false positives”, calculated as the percentage of observations with
an ordinal number above the observed ordinal number that do not match our FTS
criteria. The number of false positives will be substantial for observations with
relatively low ordinal numbers (but still above the minimum threshold) but close to
   2
    We also considered taking into account the correlation between the various variables as sug-
gested by Hollo, Kremer, and Lo Duca (2012), where higher time series correlations between the
stress-sensitive variables increase the stress indicator’s value. However, our inference regarding
FTS episodes was not materially aﬀected by this change.



                                                7
zero for observations with ordinal numbers close to 1.
    The left panel of Figure 2 plots the original FTS ordinal index values and corre-
sponding threshold levels for the US, Germany, and the UK; the right panel shows
the derived FTS ordinal measures. We view this measure as an estimate of the
probability that a particular day was a FTS; a standard classification rule therefore
suggests a FTS event when that probability is larger than 0.5. Values with a prob-
ability larger than 50% are depicted in black, values below 50% in light gray. The
percentage of days that have an ordinal index value above the threshold ranges from
6% of the total sample for Germany to 9% for the UK. Of those observations, about
65% have a FTS probability larger than 50% in the UK, compared to about 75% in
the US. In Germany, this proportion even exceeds 98%.
    We further characterize FTS incidence with the ordinal measure in Table 1. The
threshold levels show a tight range across countries with a minimum of 0.65 and
a maximum of 0.80. The mean is 0.72. The percentage of sample observations
above the threshold equals 10.5% with an interquartile range of 9.3%-11.4%. The
raw ordinal index values seem to display consistent behavior across countries. Our
measure is also influenced by the number of false positives above the threshold
value. Therefore, the third column shows the percentage of observations above the
threshold that have a FTS ordinal probability larger than 50%. The mean is 52.9%
and the interquartile range is 39.1%-64.9%. Germany proved to be an outlier with
a detection rate of 98.7% while the minimum value of 18.59% is observed for the
Czech Republic. The final column assesses how rare FTS episodes according to
this measure are. The percentage of observations with a FTS ordinal probability
larger than 50% as a percentage of the total sample is 5.2% on average, with an
interquartile range of 4.6%-6.3%.3 The range is quite tight across countries (the
minimum is 2.7%, the maximum is 7.9%).

2.2.3    A Univariate Regime-Switching FTS Model
               b
Define yi,t = ri,t − ri,t
                      s           s
                          , with ri,t                                     b
                                      the stock return for country i and ri,t the return on
the benchmark government bond for that country. We model yi,t as a three-state
regime-switching (RS) model. Two regimes are necessary to capture the low and high
volatility regimes that are typically identified in RS models for equity returns (see
Ang and Bekaert (2002a) and Perez-Quiros and Timmermann (2001)). The third
regime then functions as the FTS regime. The regime variable follows a Markov
   3
    Note that for the US, Germany, and UK, the number in the last column is of course equal to the
product of the numbers in columns 2 and 3, but this is no longer true once we show cross-country
statistics.



                                                8
Chain with constant transition probabilities. Let the time-t regime be indexed by
υ.
                               yi,t = µi,υ + σi,υ ϵi,t                       (2.3)

with ϵi,t ∼ N (0, 1) . The means and volatilities can take on 3 values. Of course,
in a FTS, yi,t should be high. To identify regime 3 as the flight-to-safety regime,
we therefore restrict its mean to be positive and higher than the means in the
other two regimes, i.e. µi,3 > 0, µi,3 > µi,1 , µi,3 > µi,2 . The transition probability
matrix, Φi , is 3 × 3, where each probability pikj represents P [ Si,t = k| Si,t−1 = j] ,
with k, j ∈ {1, 2, 3} :
                                                                    
                                pi11         pi21 (1 − pi11 − pi21 )
                                                                    
                   Φi =        pi12         pi22 (1 − pi12 − pi22 )              (2.4)
                          (1 − pi23 − pi33 ) pi23       pi33

    Panel A of Table 2 reports the estimation results. The first column reports
detailed estimation results for the US, followed by the average estimate and in-
terquartile range across all 23 countries. Regime 1 is characterized by low volatility,
and a significantly negative bond-stock return diﬀerence for all countries. This is in
line with the expectation that equities outperform bonds in tranquil times. Regime
2 corresponds to the intermediate volatility regime, and also features a mostly nega-
tive bond-stock return diﬀerence, yet typically of a smaller magnitude than in regime
1 and often not statistically significant. Annualized volatility is about twice as high
in regime 2 than in regime 1 (19.5% versus 9.7%).
    The volatility in regime 3, the FTS regime, is on average more than 47%, which is
more than 2.35 (4.5) times higher than in regime 2 (1). Looking at the interquartile
range, the bottom volatility quartile of the FTS regime is nearly twice as high as
the top volatility quartile of regime 2. The bond-stock return diﬀerence in the FTS
regime is about 0.25% on average, significantly diﬀerent from zero at the 5% (10%)
level in 11 (16) of the 23 countries with an interquartile range of [0.198%; 0.271%].
While this is a relatively small number, the eﬀect is substantially higher on days that
the FTS regime transitions to the “on” state (1.09% on average, with an interquartile
range of 0.73%-1.33%).
    To identify the regimes and to characterize their persistence, we use the smoothed
regime probabilities, which simply represent regime probabilities conditional on in-
formation from the full sample (see Kim (1994); Hamilton (1994)). In the model,
the agents are assumed to observe the regime while the econometrician does not.
The smoothed probabilities reflect the best estimate an econometrician can make re-


                                           9
garding the probability of a particular regime at a particular point in time using full
sample information. Good regime classification in a two-regime model would require
smoothed probabilities close to one or zero (see e.g. Ang and Bekaert (2002b)). The
FTS regime is the least persistent regime (with an average probability of staying
in the FTS regime of 94.7% versus 98.1% for regime 1 and 96.7% for regime 2).
To classify a day as a FTS-event, we require the smoothed probability of the FTS
regime to be larger than 0.5, even though there are three regimes4 . The average
FTS spell lasts 26.4 days. The large interquartile range (35.2 versus 17.2 days) re-
flects the substantial cross-sectional dispersion in the average FTS regime durations
across countries. There is an average of 26 FTS spells in the sample. This number
is somewhat hard to interpret as the sample period varies between 23 years and less
than 13 years across diﬀerent countries. Yet, most of the spells occur in the second
half of the sample, and it is therefore useful to compare this number across diﬀerent
models.

2.2.4    A Bivariate Regime-Switching FTS Model

The univariate RS FTS model uses minimal information to identify FTS episodes,
namely days of relatively high diﬀerences between bond and stock returns. It there-
fore can be viewed as a regime switching model counterpart to the threshold model.
In the bivariate RS model, we try to incorporate more identifying information as in
the ordinal index but using an RS model for bond and stock returns. Essentially, we
attempt to build in the “FTS symptoms” of positive (negative) bond (stock) returns,
a negative correlation between the two returns, and the presence of market stress,
especially in the equity market. We estimate the following bivariate model for stock
and bond returns in each country (we remove the country subscript i for ease of
notation):


                                                 (                  )
                               lh
               rs,t = α0 + α1 Js,t       hl
                                   + α2 Js,t + α3 JtF T S + vStF T S + εs,t ,                 (2.5)
                          εs,t ∼ N (0, hs (Sts ))                                             (2.6)
                                                      (               )
               rb,t               lh
                      = β0 + β1 Jb,t        hl
                                     + β2 Jb,t + β3 JtF T S + vStF T S +
                        (                )                      (          ( ))
                          β4 + β5 StF T S rs,t + εb,t , εb,t ∼ N 0, θt−1 hb Stb               (2.7)
   4
     The percentage of FTS days would increase on average with about 1 percent of daily observa-
tions if we were to use 1/3 rather than 1/2 as a classification rule. Testing whether a third regime
is necessary is complicated because of the presence of nuisance parameters under the null (see e.g.
Davies (1987)), and is therefore omitted.




                                                10
The variance of the stock return shock follows a two-state regime-switching model
with latent regime variable Sts . The variance of the bond return shock has two
components, one due to a spillover from the equity market, and a bond-specific
part. The latter follows a two-state regime-switching square-root model with latent
regime variable Stb ; θt−1 is the lagged bond yield.5 The “jump” terms Js,t  lh       hl
                                                                                and Js,t
are equal to 1 when the equity return shock variance switches regimes (from low to
high or high to low), and zero otherwise. We expect α1 to be negative and α2 to be
            lh        hl
positive. Jb,t and Jb,t  are defined in a similar way but depend on the bond return
shock variance. Without the jump terms, regime switching models such as the one
described above often identify negative means in the high volatility regime. However,
we would expect that there is a negative return when the regime jumps from low to
high volatility but that the higher volatility regime features expected returns higher
not lower than the low volatility regime. The jump terms have this implication with
α1 < 0 and α2 > 0. There is a mostly unexpected negative (positive) return when
the regime switches from the low (high) volatility to the high (low) volatility regime.
Within the high volatility regime, there is some expectation that a positive jump
will occur driving the mean higher than in the low volatility regime where there is
a chance of a jump to a high volatility regime. This intuition was first explored and
analyzed in Mayfield (2004).
    The structure so far describes a fairly standard regime switching model for bond
and stock returns, but would not allow us to identify flights to safety. Our identifi-
cation for the flight to safety regime uses information on the means of bonds versus
equities, on equity return volatility and on the correlation between bond and stock
returns. Let StF T S be a latent regime variable that equals 1 on FTS days and zero
otherwise. We impose α3 < 0 (stock markets drop during FTS episodes), β3 > 0
(bond prices increase during FTS), and β5 < 0 (the covariance between stocks and
bonds decreases during FTS episodes). It is conceivable that a flight to safety lasts
a while, but it is unlikely that the returns will continue to be as extreme as on the
first day. Therefore we introduce the JtF T S variable, which is 1 on the first day of a
FTS-regime and zero otherwise, and a scaling parameter υ, imposed to be positive.
On the first day, the total eﬀect is maximal at (1 + v) α3 and (1 + v)β3 , while on
subsequent FTS days the negative (positive) flight-to-safety eﬀect on equity (bond)
returns is allowed to decline to vα3 (vβ3 ). We expect but do not impose v to be
substantially below 1.
    We assume Stb and StF T S to be independent Markov chain processes. Sts is as-
   5
    By making the bond return shock variance a function of the (lagged) interest rate level, we
avoid the result that the high volatility regime is only observed in the first years of sample, as the
early 1980s was a period of high interest rates.


                                                 11
sumed to be independent of Stb , but we assume that the equity volatility regime is
always in the high volatility state, given that we experience a FTS episode:
                                (                           )
                              Pr Sts = 1| St−1
                                           s
                                               , StF T S = 1 = 1                            (2.8)

    Panel B of Table 2 summarizes the estimation results. The jump terms have
the expected signs for the equity market (and are mostly significant) but for bond
returns, the results are more mixed. We clearly identify a high and low volatility
regime for both the bond and the stock market, with volatilities typically about
twice as high in the high volatility regime. In terms of the parameters governing
the FTS regime, we find that α3 is -7.863% in the US, and -5.22% on average, with
a substantial interquartile range ([-7.42%, -1.63%]). Not surprisingly, the υ-scaling
parameter is mostly rather small (interquartile range of [0.014,0.047]), indicating
that a FTS mostly only induces one day of heavy losses6 . For bond returns, β3
is 0.81% on average, but it is also often drawn to the lower boundary of zero.
Finally, we do find that β5 is statistically significantly negative, indicating that a
FTS induces a negative covariance between bond and stock returns (or at least one
lower than the covariance in non-FTS regimes) above and beyond what is induced
by the jump terms. As reflected by the average and interquartile values for β4 , the
average stock-bond correlation in ‘normal’ times is relatively close to zero in our
sample, but positive on average.
    To identify a FTS day, we use the standard classification rule that the smoothed
FTS regime probability be larger than 0.5. We do find that the bivariate model
predicts FTS spells to last substantially longer than in the univariate model, with
an average of 89.9 days in the US and 86.8 days on average in all countries and
a substantial interquartile range of [58-101] days. On average, the number of FTS
spells from the bivariate RS model is lower than that from the univariate RS model,
although it is higher for the US (24 compared to 18).


2.3     Aggregate FTS Incidence
At this point, we have transformed data on bond and stock returns and simple infor-
mation about the “symptoms” of a FTS into 4 noisy measures regarding the presence
of a FTS day. These measure are between 0 and 1 and can be interpreted as a mea-
sure of the probability of observing a FTS event. The literature on classification
suggests that the optimal rule (in the sense that it minimizes misclassification) is to
   6
   The average value for ν (2.079) is higher than the value for the top quartile (0.047) because a
small number of countries have a very high value of ν.



                                               12
classify the population based on the relative probability. Given that there are two
states (FTS or not), a probability of a flight to safety higher than 0.5 would lead to
the conclusion that there is a flight to safety. We use this rule to create 4 alternative
FTS dummies. Table 3 (right hand side columns) reports the average number of
days classified as FTS according to each of the 4 approaches. In general, the thresh-
old and ordinal method yield a relatively low incidence of FTS days, whereas the
regime-switching approaches deliver relatively persistent FTS regimes and classify
more days as FTS events. For most countries, the proportion of time spent in a
FTS-episode increases monotonically moving from the threshold indicator (0.84%
on average) to the ordinal indicator (4%), then to the univariate RS model (9.76%)
and finally the bivariate RS model (14.91%). Within each method, the interquartile
ranges are relatively tight, ranging from 0.71%-0.93% for the threshold indicator to
2.5%-5.6% for the ordinal indicator to 7.9%-12% and 10.9%-18.9% for the univariate
and bivariate RS models, respectively.
    To aggregate the information in the 4 measures into one FTS measure, our
main methodology relies on the extant literature on regime classification based on
qualitative variables (see e.g. Gilbert (1968))7 . We view the 4 methods as yielding a
Bernouilli draw on the FTS with the probability estimated at each point of time. It
recognizes that if 3 of the 4 variables indicate a flight to safety, we should be rather
confident a flight to safety indeed occurred. We extract the joint probability that at
least 3 out of our 4 indicators identify a FTS on a particular day from a multivariate
Bernoulli distribution using the method proposed by Teugels (1990) (see Appendix
A for technical details). This computation requires not only the probabilities of the
4 Bernoulli random variables at each point in time but also their covariances. It
goes without saying that inference based on the 4 diﬀerent measures is likely to be
positively correlated. Sample correlations between the 4 FTS dummies vary roughly
between 20% and 65%. In these day by day computations, we use full sample
estimates of the covariances between the diﬀerent FTS dummies (the underlying
Bernoulli variables), which we estimate using the usual 50% classification rule as
explained above. We then set the joint FTS dummy equal to one when that joint
probability is larger than 50%, and zero otherwise.
    Given this aggregation method, we record the proportion of time spent in a FTS
episode in Table 3 (left column). The average proportion is 2.54% (interquartile
range of 1.29%-3.55%). The incidence of FTS days using the aggregate measure is
   7
    As an alternative, we also considered a naive aggregator which simply averages the probabilities
at each point in time. When that average is above 0.5, we conclude there is a flight to safety, and
set the average FTS dummy equal to 1. Both measures largely select the same periods as FTS
episodes, and the dummy variables are highly correlated at 85.2%.



                                                13
therefore somewhere in between the threshold and ordinal measures, but yields far
fewer FTS days than the regime switching models do. Figure 3 shows the results for
the US. The top Panel of Figure 3 plots the joint FTS probability. The bottom panel
plots the corresponding FTS dummy, which equals one when the joint probability
is larger than 50%, and zero otherwise. The FTS measure yields very few FTS
instances before 1995 (the October 1987 crash, and a short period reflecting the
1990 recession in the US being the exceptions), but FTS are much more frequent in
the second half of the sample.


2.4    Characterizing FTS Episodes
With the identification of FTS events in place, we now analyze several features
of these events, including the return impact on FTS days, the persistence of FTS
events, the relative contribution of the various methodologies, and the global or local
nature of FTS events.

Return impact

Figure 4 summarizes average returns on equities and bonds as well as the return
impact (bond minus equity return) before, during, and after FTS events. The
horizontal axis records 7 points on a time line, namely 5 to 1 days before a FTS, 1
day before a FTS, the first day of a FTS, the rest of a FTS spell except for the last
day, the last day of a FTS spell, and finally, 1 to 5 days after a spell. Returns on the
vertical axis are in percent and the dashed lines connect the average return across
countries. The vertical bars represent the interquartile ranges across countries.
    Outside FTS spells, equity and bond returns are close to zero and so is the return
impact with inter-quartile ranges that are very tight. Interestingly, one day before
and one day after a FTS spell, equity returns are solidly positive and bond returns
negative, leading to strong positive return impact just before and after a FTS spell.
While this seems puzzling at first, it is entirely driven by FTS events identified by the
ordinal method. As we show below, because the ordinal FTS measure’s persistence
is between that of the threshold and RS models, it has a strong influence on our joint
FTS inference. Moreover, we find that this result is entirely due to days that happen
“in between” FTS events; that is, on the day before a FTS that is not preceded by
another FTS event in the previous 5 days, both the equity and bond return impacts
are in fact close to zero. A plausible hypothesis is that these events reflect reversals
during stressful times. In particular, crisis periods tend to be somewhat persistent
(as identified by our RS models) but within such periods, flashes of good news can


                                           14
lead to short-term reversals with positive equity and negative bond returns. Anyone
having watched financial markets during the 2008-2009 financial crises will remember
such market behavior.8
    During a FTS spell, we see very significantly negative (positive) equity (bond)
returns, with the returns being slightly larger in absolute magnitude both in the
beginning and towards the end of a spell. The return impact is 3.16% on the first
day of a FTS spell with an interquartile range of 2.51-3.87%, 3.45% on the last
day of a FTS spell with an interquartile range of 2.80-4.07%, and 2.49% on days
in between with an interquartile range of 1.44-2.86%. On average, the return im-
pact during the sample is 0.014%, so that the FTS spells generate first-day return
impacts roughly 2.4 standard deviations above the average diﬀerence between eq-
uity and bond returns, where we used the ensemble standard deviation to do this
computation.

The persistence of FTS

Figure 5 plots the cross-country average number of FTS spells that take exactly 1,
2, or 3 days, or whose length is in the intervals [4-9], [10-49], [50-99], or more than
99 days, based on each of the 4 individual measures as well as the joint measure.
Spells are usually very short-lived under the threshold model and never longer than
3 days. Spells are often much longer under the RS models. This is not surprising,
as the identification of regimes in regime switching models often relies heavily on
second moments (volatilities, correlations) that tend to be highly persistent. The
persistence of spells identified using the joint measure seems most similar to that
using the ordinal method. If we express the distribution of the duration of FTS
spells under the joint measure in fractions, we find that 55.7% of the spells last 1
day, 22.9% last two days, 10.3% last three days, 9.14% last between 4 and 9 days,
and only 1.9% last longer than 10 days.

Contribution of diﬀerent models

The diﬀerent persistence across the various methodologies suggests that they may
contribute diﬀerently to the joint measure. Given the nature of the aggregation
methodology described in Section 2.3, quantifying the contribution of each method
to the joint measure is non-trivial. An indirect way to do so is to set an individual
FTS measure to 0, and then to recompute the aggregate measure as in Section 2.3.
   8
    This behavior provides a challenge for dynamic models of stock and bond returns, as it is not
captured well by RS models. The Bad Environment Good Environment model in Bekaert and
Engstrom (2009) can potentially capture such behavior.


                                               15
If the measure is absolutely essential for FTS identification, the resulting “restricted”
FTS measure should not overlap much with our actual measure. When the individual
measure is not that important and is not essential for FTS identification, the overlap
should be very substantial. In Table 4, we report the percentage overlap between
the “restricted” FTS measures and the joint FTS measure, which is the percentage
of FTS days under the original FTS measure that are also classified as FTS based
on the “restricted” measure. Setting any of the last three FTS measures to zero
dramatically reduces the incidence of FTS, but setting the threshold indicator to
zero has only a marginal eﬀect. The threshold model seems to have an marginal
eﬀect for FTS identification especially in the US, UK and Germany. However, the
threshold methodology still contributes to the joint measure, as the average overlap
across countries is only 83% with a minimum of zero and an interquartile range of
[76%-96%]. When any of the other three measures is set to zero, the incidence of
FTS declines much more dramatically, with only around 20% of the FTS days based
on the joint measure continuing to be classified as FTS days. This fraction does
not diﬀer dramatically across the three measures, suggesting they are all roughly
equally important in the identification of FTS events.

Propagation and global crises

Figure 6 plots the percentage of countries experiencing a FTS at each point in time.
The FTS dummies clearly select well known global crises as global FTS events,
including the October 1987 crash, the 1997 Asian crisis, the Russian crisis and
LTCM debacle in 1998, the Lehman Brothers collapse and several spells during
the European sovereign debt crisis. Defining a global FTS as one where at least
two thirds of our countries experience a FTS, there are a total of 39 global FTS-
days. In Table 5, we report the proportion of FTS spells that are global in nature
across countries. The cross-country average of local FTS spells that are global
in nature amounts to 23.0%, with an interquartile range of 14.0%-22.9%. Large
developed countries such as the US, the UK and Germany (reported separately)
feature a relatively low proportion of global spells, suggesting they are more subject
to idiosyncratic flights to safety. While the interquartile ranges are relatively tight,
a number of small countries, such as Norway, the Czech Republic and Poland have
a very high proportion of global FTS episodes.
    Table 6 investigates how FTS events propagate across countries. In particular, do
global FTS episodes tend to originate from some countries more than from others?
To answer this question, we examine three statistics for each country. The first
set of columns simply reports the (empirical) probability that country j is in a


                                           16
FTS state given that country i is in a FTS, averaged over all countries j̸= i. This
statistic therefore captures how prevalent FTS events are in other countries, given
that they occur in country i. According to this statistic, the UK is the top originator
of FTS events, with 44.3% of countries experiencing a FTS when the UK does.
However, because we do not diﬀerentiate between idiosyncratic and global FTS’s in
this calculation, it is possible that this statistic simply measures the propensity of
a country to be embroiled in a global FTS. Therefore, the second set of columns
excludes global FTS events from the computation. It is remarkable that the ranking
across countries does not change very much. Finally, to capture better the idea
of FTS originating in one country and propagating to another country, the third
set of columns focuses on the two days before global FTS events and computes
the percentage of those days that are FTS days for each country, with the goal
of identifying the countries from which those crises originated. Interestingly, the
three classification schemes yield a very similar set of countries as the main FTS
originators. We show in bold countries that have percentage statistics two standard
errors above the country average, where the standard error is computed as the cross-
sectional standard deviation divided by the square root of the number of countries
(23). At most 9 countries appear in bold for any of the three statistics, and no
less than 7 countries (the UK, Germany, Sweden, the US, France, Canada and
Austria) appear near the top in all three columns. In contrast, Japan, New Zealand
and the emerging European countries are clearly not the most important originator
countries, which can also be seen from the regional averages reported at the bottom
of the table. The regional analysis suggests that the North-American region is the
strongest originator followed by Developed Europe.


2.5    Alternative FTS Measures
Our FTS measures require minimal data inputs and provide a daily reading of flight
to safety episodes. Of course, there are other financial indicators that may allow
identification of a flight to safety episode. We therefore investigate the comovement
between our FTS dummies and four types of alternative stress indicators. The first
set comprises implied volatility indices on major indices: the US S&P500 (VIX),
generally viewed as a fear index, the UK FTSE100 (VFTS), the German DAX
(VDAX), and the Japanese Nikkei 225 (VXJ). We regress daily changes in those
indices on our FTS dummies. Second, we investigate a series of sentiment/confidence
indicators. The sentiment variables include the Baker and Wurgler (2006) sentiment
indicator (purged of business cycle fluctuations), the Michigan consumer sentiment
index (which measure sentiment in the US), the Ifo Business Climate indicator

                                          17
(which measures sentiment in Germany), and the country-specific OECD consumer
confidence indicators (seasonally-adjusted). Because these sentiment variables are
only available on a monthly basis, we regress their monthly changes on the fraction
of FTS days within the month (expressed in decimals). Next, we regress percentage
changes in the value of three safe haven currency values (i.e. the Swiss Franc, the
Japanese Yen, and the US Dollar) on the FTS dummy using daily data. Note that
the currencies are expressed in domestic currency units per unit of the safe currency,
so that positive changes indicate an appreciation of the safe-haven currency. For this
exercise, we leave out the three safe currency countries. Finally, we regress the TED
spread (both in levels and in changes) on our FTS dummies.9 The TED spread is the
diﬀerence between the three month LIBOR rate for a particular currency (country)
and the corresponding three-month T-bill interest rate. While it directly reflects
default risk in the banking sector, the TED spread is more generally viewed as an
indicator of the perceived credit risk in the economy and tends to spike in times of
crises.
    Table 7 contains the results. We show slope parameter estimates for the US,
Germany and the UK, as well as the average, standard deviation and top/bottom
quartile parameter estimates across all 23 countries. The last column shows the
number of countries for which the parameter estimates are significant, using White
(1980) heteroskedasticity-consistent standard errors.
    The VIX increases by 3.30% on average when the US experiences a FTS. The
eﬀect of FTS on the US VIX is significant at the 10 (5) percent level in 22 (19) of the
23 countries. When country-specific implied volatilities (VIX for US, Canada; VFTS
for the UK; VDAX for the other European countries; VJX for Japan, Australia and
New Zealand) are used, however, the FTS eﬀect increases in magnitude and becomes
significant at the 5 percent level in all countries.
    There is clear evidence of a significant decline in consumer and business sentiment
during FTS episodes. The Baker-Wurgler sentiment indicator and the Michigan con-
sumer sentiment index decrease significantly when there is a FTS in the US. The
Michigan index also reacts significantly to flight to safety instances in Germany and
the UK, although these countries witness only a limited number of global flights
to safety (see Table 5). There are another 7 countries whose FTS episodes have
significant eﬀects on the Michigan index, but only 5 on the Baker-Wurgler index.
The Ifo business climate indicator declines significantly in times of FTS for all but
two countries. This is somewhat surprising as this indicator measures the German
   9
     We only have TED spread data for 19 countries (not for Ireland, Austria, the Czech Republic
and Poland).



                                              18
business climate. A FTS negatively aﬀects OECD consumer confidence in 19 coun-
tries, as measured by the country-specific OECD indicator of consumer sentiment.
Thus, the Ifo business climate and OECD leading indicators seem linked to FTS
events across the globe.
    There is also strong evidence of a flight to safe haven currencies in times of a
FTS. On average, during a FTS day, the Swiss Franc appreciates by 0.40%, the
Japanese Yen by 0.72%, and the US Dollar by 0.35%. The appreciation of the Yen
is significant following a FTS in all 22 countries, compared to in 19 countries for
both the Swiss Franc and US dollar.
    For the US, the TED spread is on average 27 basis points higher in times of FTS,
but the cross-country average is essentially zero. The TED spread increases (daily)
by 3 basis points when the US experiences a FTS. Across all countries, during a
FTS day, the TED spread increases on average by 2 basis points, but this eﬀect is
only significant for 5 out of 19 countries.


3    FTS and the Economic and Financial Environ-
     ment
In this section, we examine the comovement of FTS spells with a large number of
financial and economic variables. Our goal is to document comovements rather than
to look for causality. Methodologically, the framework is therefore a simple linear
regression at the country (i) level, as follows:

                         rt,i = α + βF T St,i + γCtrlt,i + et,i                   (3.1)

Here, rt,i is mostly a return on a financial asset, but may also represent a yield or
macro-economic variable. When daily data are available, F T S is the FTS dummy;
when the data are measured over a time interval such as a month, F T S represents
the fraction of days over the interval that are identified as FTS. The variable Ctrl is
a vector of control variables that may diﬀer across regressions. For equity portfolios,
for instance, it includes global and local stock market returns. The standard errors in
the regressions are mostly heteroskedasticity-consistent and adjusted for serial cor-
relation when overlapping dates are used (as in the regressions with macroeconomic
variables reported in Section 3.5). We also considered an alternative specification
where we split up the FTS dummy into a “first day” dummy and a “remaining days”
dummy. These regressions overwhelmingly indicate that the two FTS betas are
not significantly diﬀerent from one another, and if they are, there is no systematic


                                          19
evidence in favor of the eﬀects being stronger on the first day or the rest of the
FTS days. We therefore relegate these results to an unpublished appendix. Unless
otherwise mentioned, the format of our tables is identical across diﬀerent classes of
variables: we show the estimates for the US, Germany, and the UK, as well as the
average, the standard deviation, and the top/bottom quartile estimates across all
23 countries.
    Before we begin, we want to provide one illustrative example of the importance
of FTS. It is to be expected that bond and stock returns, the two major asset
classes, are positively correlated as they both represent long duration assets. Over
our sample period, which starts fairly late in 1980, this correlation is nonetheless
negative for 19 out of 23 countries. It is conceivable that this negative correlation
is mainly caused by the relatively high incidence of FTS in the last 30 years. If
such a “FTS-heavy” era is not likely to occur again in the near future, investors may
want to re-assess the computation of the bond-stock return correlation. To assess
the importance of FTS events for this important statistic, we eliminated FTS events
in each country from the sample and recomputed the stock-bond return correlation.
The stock-bond return correlation is -2.1% on average in “normal” periods with
an interquartile range of [-7.4%, 4.2%], and -9.12% overall (interquartile range of
[-13.1%,-5.3%]). The average correlation in FTS periods is in fact -42.86% and
the absolute diﬀerence between those correlations in normal and in FTS times is on
average 41.7%, with a relative tight interquartile range ([33.2%, 54.8%]). Thus, FTS
events indeed render the bond-equity return correlation substantially more negative.


3.1    FTS and Equity Portfolios
To assess the FTS “beta” of diﬀerent equity portfolios, we regress their daily returns
on the FTS dummy and two controls for “standard” systematic risks, the world
market return and the local stock market return, both measured in local currency
units. As a consequence, the FTS beta must be interpreted as the abnormal return
earned during FTS episodes, controlling for normal beta risks. Importantly, it does
not indicate which portfolios perform best or worst during FTS spells, as portfolios
with positive (negative) FTS betas may have also high (low) market betas, making
them perform overall relatively poorly (well) during a FTS spell. We also estimated
a specification with interaction terms between the FTS dummy and the benchmark
returns, but this specification often runs into multi-collinearity problems and the
results are therefore omitted. We also considered a specification where in addition
we control for the global bond market return, constructed as the GDP-weighted
average of the government bond returns across all 23 countries. This specification

                                         20
does not meaningfully alter our FTS betas and we relegate the results to the Online
appendix.
    Table 8 reports the FTS betas for 10 local industry portfolios (using the Datas-
tream industry classification), 5 local style portfolios from MSCI (large caps, mid
caps, small caps, value and growth), and two additional style portfolios: a SMB
portfolio (i.e. the return on the small cap portfolio minus the return on the large
cap portfolio) and a HML portfolio (i.e. the return on the value portfolio minus the
return on the growth portfolio).
    Among the industry portfolios, financials, basic materials and industrials gener-
ally show significant underperformance during a FTS, controlling for their “normal”
betas. The inter-quartile ranges are negative for these industries and the FTS betas
are statistically significant in many countries. In contrast, the only robustly “defen-
sive” industry is telecom, the price of which on average increases 30.4 basis points
on FTS days, after controlling for its normal beta. Other industries show significant
but country-specific results. For instance, the technology sector outperforms in the
US, but underperforms significantly in the UK. Consumer goods, health care, and
consumer services outperform in the US but perform similarly to the broad market in
Germany. When we investigate the global and local betas of the various industries,
which are reported in the online appendix, we observe a weak negative correlation
between the factor exposures and the FTS betas for the US. In other words, the
performance of the various industries during a FTS is even more diverse than their
betas would suggest. However, this pattern does not generalize across countries.
    Among the style portfolios, large cap portfolios have mostly positive FTS betas,
whereas small cap portfolios have negative FTS betas. Value portfolios tend to
have negative FTS betas and growth portfolios positive ones, but the betas are
small and the results are statistically weaker than for the size portfolios. This is
naturally confirmed when we look at spread portfolios, where the SMB portfolio
has an average FTS beta of -47 basis points (significant in 15 out of 23 countries),
but the HML portfolio only has a FTS beta of -14 basis points (significant in only
6 countries). Perhaps the size results can be interpreted as a flight to quality into
larger, well-known companies or a flight to liquidity into widely traded firms.


3.2    FTS and Bond Portfolios
In Table 9, we focus on how FTS events aﬀect the bond markets. Panel A reports
how bond yields and spreads react during FTS episodes. Because interest rates are
highly persistent and appear to be on a downward trend over the sample period,
a regression of yields on an FTS dummy may just record the lower interest rates

                                          21
prevailing in the FTS-heavy later part of the sample. We therefore measure yields
and spreads relative to their moving averages over the most recent 150 days. We
construct the level, slope and curvature factors from 3-month T-bill rates and 5-
and 10-year bond yields in the usual fashion (see the Table notes for details). The
corporate bond indices are only available for the US, Japan, Canada, Australia and
the Eurozone as a whole; we therefore use the Euro-zone corporate bond index for
the European countries and the Australian corporate bond index for New Zealand.
    On average, the nominal government bond yield curve shifts down, flattens and
becomes less hump-shaped in times of FTS (our curvature factor is decreasing in
the degree of curvature). Nominal government bond yields decline significantly
in all but some southern European countries (e.g. Greece, Portugal and Italy),
which see significant increases in their government bond yields. This is consistent
with a FTS from those countries towards safer countries (like Germany and the
US). Central banks seem to respond to FTS episodes, as the targeted interest rate
declines considerably in most countries. Turning to corporate spreads, we see mixed
results for the spreads between yields on AAA-rated corporate bond and those on
10-year government bonds: most developed countries (e.g. US, UK, Germany)
observe a significant widening of those spreads, likely reflecting both higher credit
risk premiums and higher liquidity premiums during a FTS. In contrast, certain
non-core European countries (e.g. Belgium, Italy, Spain, Greece, Portugal) and New
Zealand see those spreads narrowing, likely reflecting the fact that local investors
prefer highly-rated regional corporate bonds above local government bonds in times
of FTS. Finally, we find a significant increase in the BBB-AAA spread for all but 3
countries.
    In unreported results, we also examine inflation-indexed government bond yields
from seven countries for which such data is available: US, UK, Japan, Canada, Swe-
den, Australia, and France. For the majority of the countries, nominal government
bond yields decline by much more than real yields do.10 This indicates a decrease in
inflation expectations or inflation risk premiums in such times (see Section 3.5 for
a thorough discussion on the comovement between FTS episodes and the macroe-
conomy) in addition to a drop in the real yield. For Canada, however, the real
yield curve on average shifts up while the nominal yield curve shifts down during a
FTS episode, whereas for Japan the declines in real yields are larger than those in
nominal yields, although neither decline is significant.
    Panel B of Table 9 reports the FTS betas for daily returns on various bond
  10
     When we compare the reaction of both nominal and real bond yields to FTS, we restrict
the sample for the nominal bond yields to the (slightly) shorter period that real bond yields are
available.


                                               22
portfolios. We follow a similar procedure as for equity returns and control for the
exposure to the long-term benchmark bond portfolio in each regression. For cor-
porate bond returns, we also control for the local stock market return. The bond
portfolios include JP Morgan Libor-based cash indices with maturities of 1, 2, 3,
6 and 12 months, benchmark Datastream government bond indices with maturi-
ties of 2, 5, 7, 10, 20 and 30 years, and Bank of America/Merrill-Lynch corporate
bond indices for AAA, AA, A and BBB rating groups, which have somewhat limited
country coverage (see above). All returns are daily and denominated in the local
currency.
    For the US and UK, there is a pronounced pattern that during FTS episodes,
shorter-term bonds underperform the benchmark 10-year government bond, while
the longer-term 30-year bond outperforms. This pattern largely remains when look-
ing across all countries but becomes less pronounced. Corporate bonds underperform
after controlling for their exposures to the stock market and the government bond
market; the underperformance is more significant for lower-rated bonds, although
the FTS betas of A- and BBB-rated bonds are quantitatively similar. The finding
that AAA bonds slightly over-perform on average is driven entirely by Japan; when
Japan is excluded, AAA bonds also underperform with a FTS beta of -0.042. It is
interesting to note that the betas of corporate bonds with respect to the long-term
government bonds are around 0.4 and slightly smaller for lower ratings, whereas
the equity betas are minuscule. Hence, corporate bonds almost surely outperform
equities during FTS-episodes.
    Finally, in Panel C we consider two types of spread portfolios; first, term spread
portfolios consisting of a long position in the 10-year government bond and a short
position in either the 1-month cash index or the 2-year government bond, and, sec-
ond, default spread portfolios consisting of a long position in the AAA corporate
bond index (benchmark government bond) and a short position in the BBB corpo-
rate bond index (the AAA corporate bond index). The first type of portfolios would
perform well when the yield curve shifts down and/or flattens, while the second type
of portfolio would perform well when default risks or default risk premiums rise. We
find that the term spread portfolios generally outperform during FTS events, con-
sistent with the finding in Panel B that longer-term bonds outperform shorter-term
instruments. Turning to the default spread portfolios, the government-AAA portfo-
lio outperforms on FTS days for the US, consistent with fears of increased default
risks on those days, but underperforms on average across countries. This average un-
derperformance is largely driven by investor preferences for the regional high-quality
corporate bonds over local government bonds in some non-core European countries


                                         23
and New Zealand as mentioned above. In contrast, the AAA-BBB spread portfolio
consistently delivers positive abnormal returns on FTS days for all countries.


3.3     FTS and Liquidity
3.3.1    Bond Market Liquidity

Benchmark Treasury bonds are attractive in times of market stress not only for
their low level of default risk, but also for their (perceived) high levels of liquidity.
Longstaﬀ (2004) shows that the liquidity premium in Treasury bonds can amount to
more than 15 percent of their value. Beber, Brandt, and Kavajecz (2009) find that
while investors value both the credit quality and liquidity of bonds, they care most
about their liquidity in times of stock market stress. Of course, it is unclear whether
the supply of liquidity in the Treasury bond market is present when it is most desired.
It is also not likely present for all bonds. Chordia, Sarkar, and Subrahmanyam
(2005) find that the liquidity in the Treasury market overall deteriorates during
crisis periods. Goyenko and Ukhov (2009) show that bid-ask spreads on Treasury
bills and bonds increase during recessions, especially for oﬀ-the-run long-term bonds.
    Our analysis of how bond (il)liquidity is correlated with FTS is severely hampered
by data availability. We therefore only show results for the US. Our first illiquidity
measure was proposed by Goyenko and Ukhov (2009) and used more recently in
Baele, Bekaert, and Inghelbrecht (2010) and Goyenko, Subrahmanyam, and Ukhov
(2011). It is the average of proportional quoted spreads11 of oﬀ-the-run US Treasury
bonds with a maturity of at most 1 year (in percent).12 This measure is available
at the monthly frequency from the start of our sample (1980) till December 2010.
The monthly average spread is calculated for each security and then equal weighted
across securities. Our daily FTS measures are transformed to monthly indicators by
taking the proportion of FTS days within a month. Because the proportional spread
is clearly non-stationary over our sample, decreasing from over 0.09% in the early
1980s to less than 0.01% more recently, our estimations use the spread relative to a
6-month moving average as the dependent variable (multiplied by 100). As Panel A
of Table 10 shows, we observe a positive and significant increase in the proportional
spread (relative to a 6-month moving average) on FTS days.
    As a second measure, we use the oﬀ/on-the-run spread, calculated as the negative
of the daily yield diﬀerence between an on-the-run Treasury bond and a synthetic oﬀ-
  11
     The proportional spread is calculated as the diﬀerence between ask and bid prices scaled by
the midpoint of the posted quote.
  12
     We would like to thank Ruslan Goyenko for making this series available to us.




                                              24
the-run Treasury security with the same coupon rate and maturity date.13 On-the-
run bonds tend to trade at a premium (lower yield) because investors appreciate their
higher liquidity relative to oﬀ-the-run bonds (see e.g. Jordan and Jordan (1997),
Krishnamurthy (2002), and Graveline and McBrady (2011)). Pasquariello and Vega
(2009), among others, show that the oﬀ-on-the run spread increases in times of
higher perceived uncertainty surrounding U.S. monetary policy and macroeconomic
fundamentals. The second row of Panel A of Table 10 shows that the oﬀ-on-the-run
spread increases from about 14 basis points in “normal” times to more than 24 basis
points on FTS days (with the change significant at the 1% level).
    As a third measure, we use the root mean squared distance between observed
yields on Treasury bonds with maturities between 1 and 10 years and those implied
by the smoothed zero coupon yield curve proposed by Gurkaynak, Sack, and Wright
(2007). This cross-sectional “price deviation” measure was recently used by Hu,
Pan, and Wang (2013), who argue that it primarily measures liquidity supply. When
arbitrageurs have unrestricted risk-bearing capacity, they can supply ample liquidity
and can quickly eliminate deviations between bond yields and their fundamental
values as proxied by the fitted yield curve. When their risk-bearing capacity is
impaired, liquidity is imperfect and substantial deviations can appear. Fontaine
and Garcia (2012) propose a similar measure. Hu, Pan, and Wang (2013) show that
their “noise measure” is small in normal times but increases substantially during
market crises. The noise measure is on average only 3.6 basis points, but increases
to over 10 basis points during crises. Yet, this measure also shows a long-term trend
downwards from the early 80s till the end of the 90s. We therefore investigate its
value relative to a 150-day moving average. The final row of Panel A shows that
the noise measure increases on FTS days relative to its 150-day moving average by
about 1.2 basis points (which is significant at the 1% level).
    Our overall findings on bond liquidity are consistent with the detailed results
in a recent paper by Engle, Fleming, Ghysels, and Nguyen (2012), who use (high-
frequency) order book data for on-the-run 2, 5, and 10 year notes from early 2006 till
mid-2010. They analyze Treasury bond liquidity in stress times using a FTS thresh-
old measure inspired by this paper to identify stress. They find trading volumes,
the number of trades, and net buying volumes to be substantially higher on FTS
days, especially for shorter-term (2-year) notes. However, they find market depth,
a measure of the willingness to provide liquidity, to be much lower on FTS days
and to thin out more quickly for the 5 and 10-year notes than for the 2 year notes.
  13
     See Section 6 in Gurkaynak, Sack, and Wright (2007) for a discussion on how to calculate the
synthetic yields. Our measure is adjusted for auction cycle eﬀects.



                                               25
The combination of decreasing depth and high price volatility on FTS days suggests
that even though liquidity demand shoots up, high market volatility makes dealers
substantially more conservative with their liquidity supply, as they attempt to re-
duce adverse execution risk. Hence, their paper concludes that insuﬃcient liquidity
supply causes bond market illiquidity in stress times.

3.3.2   Equity Market Liquidity

Brunnermeier and Pedersen (2009) develop a theory where a (severe) market shock
interacts with (evaporating) funding and market liquidity, with liquidity provision
being curtailed particularly in volatile assets such as equities. The extant empirical
work seems to confirm this intuition. For example, Chordia, Sarkar, and Subrah-
manyam (2005) find that equity market liquidity deteriorates together with that in
the Treasury market during crisis periods; Naes, Skjeltorp, and Odegaard (2011)
find that equity market liquidity systematically decreases during (and even before)
economic recessions.
    Here, we link our FTS measures to three measures of equity market illiquid-
ity, namely the eﬀective tick measure developed in Goyenko, Holden, and Trzcinka
(2009) and Holden (2009), the price impact measure of Amihud (2002), and the
reversal measure of Pastor and Stambaugh (2003). Goyenko, Holden, and Trzcinka
(2009) and Holden (2009) estimate the eﬀective bid-ask spread from prices using a
price clustering model. The “Eﬀective Tick measure” is the probability-weighted av-
erage of potential eﬀective spread sizes within a number of price-clustering regimes
divided by the average price in the examined time interval. Amihud (2002) examines
the average ratio of the daily absolute return to the dollar trading volume on that
day, which measures the daily price impact of order flow. Pastor and Stambaugh
(2003) use a complex regression procedure involving daily firm returns and signed
dollar volume to measure (innovations in) price reversals, both at the firm and mar-
ket levels. In the tradition of Roll (1984), price reversals are interpreted to reflect
the bid-ask spread. Aggregate measures for each of these indicators are equally-
weighted averages of monthly firm-level estimates that are in turn estimated using
daily firm-level data within a month. Unreported time series graphs reveal that the
Amihud and Pastor-Stambaugh series are stationary, so we report level regression
results. However, the eﬀective tick measure starts a downward trend at the end of
the 80s-early 90s, rendering the series non-stationary. We therefore investigate the
series relative to a 6-month moving average.
    Results in Panel B of Table 10 suggest that illiquidity in the US equity market
increases substantially and significantly during FTS. The FTS coeﬃcients are very


                                          26
large relative to the means in normal periods, as reflected by the constants in the
regressions. Do note though that the monthly nature of the data implies that the
full estimated eﬀect will never materialize, as this measures the eﬀect of a month
in which all days are FTS, which never happens. The maximum FTS value is 0.65,
which is obtained for November 2008.


3.4       FTS and Commodities
In Table 11, we report regression coeﬃcients from a regression of the daily S&P GSCI
benchmark commodity index returns, which measure returns on commodity futures
contracts worldwide, on the joint FTS dummy while controlling for global equity
market exposure. We consider broad indices (Commodity Total, Energy, Industrial
Metals, Precious Metals, Agriculture, Livestock) and subindices (Crude Oil, Brent
Crude Oil and Gold). The table has the exact same structure as the previous
tables for bonds and equities, except for the last but one column, which reports the
average exposure (beta) to global equity market returns. We note that commodity
prices generally decline on FTS days, ranging from on average minus 6 basis points
for Livestock to minus 52 basis points for Crude Oil, with Agriculture being an
exception registering an average increase of 18 basis points. The decreases are
statistically significant for the great majority of country/commodity pairs, including
for Agriculture for many countries. There is one, not entirely surprising, exception:
precious metals and its main component, gold. Both have positive FTS betas of
on average 12 and 13 basis points, respectively. In both cases, the interquartile
ranges are strictly positive, and the FTS betas are significant in 11 and 13 of the 23
countries, respectively. Note that Precious Metals and Gold have non-trivial positive
global market betas, therefore the positive FTS exposures may be partially oﬀset
by negative market returns during a FTS spell. In fact, when we do not control for
equity market exposure,14 the FTS beta for Precious Metals become negative (minus
3 basis points on average) and for gold it drops to on average 6 basis points; both
are statistically significant in only 1 country. In comparison, all other commodities
have positive market exposures and therefore their systematic risk exacerbates the
negative eﬀect of their FTS exposure.


3.5       FTS Episodes and the Macroeconomy
In Table 12, we investigate the comovement between FTS episodes and the macroe-
conomy by regressing a number of macroeconomic variables on the fraction of days
 14
      These results are available in an online appendix.


                                                 27
of FTS instances within the month (expressed in decimals). We investigate 3-month
changes in the CPI, industrial production (IP), the unemployment rate, and the
OECD leading indicator over the next three months, as well as quarterly changes in
real GDP and the investment-to-GDP ratio over the following quarter. For inflation,
IP growth, GDP growth, the unemployment rate and investment growth, we also
have monthly survey forecasts from Consensus Economics and we examine both the
mean and the standard deviation of 12-month ahead individual forecasts 3 month
hence.15 In the lines with variables marked “future”, we regress annual growth rates
or annual changes in the economic variables over the following year on the fraction
of days of FTS instances within the month (expressed in decimals).
    Inflation, real GDP growth, and IP growth are significantly lower during FTS
episodes for most countries with data available. The average growth rate and the
interquartile range across countries are both strictly negative. Unemployment in-
creases significantly in more than half of the countries. Investment as a percentage
of GDP also declines in most countries, but only significantly so in 6 countries.
During FTS episodes, survey participants on average predict significantly lower real
growth and inflation and significantly higher unemployment rates in most of the
countries with forecasts data available. Forecast uncertainty, as measured by the
cross-sectional standard deviation of individual forecasts, increases significantly for
roughly half of the countries.
    Inflation, real GDP growth, and IP growth also decline significantly one year
after the FTS for most countries, and unemployment increases substantially over
the same period. Note that the economic magnitudes of those changes are very
large. For example, US real GDP growth is predicted to be 4.4% lower if all days
within a month are categorized as a FTS, although the observed eﬀect will be smaller
as the percentage of FTS days within a month never exceeds 65%16 . Finally, a FTS
spell is accompanied by a contemporaneous decline in the OECD leading indicator
but an increase one year in the future. As the OECD aims to predict the business
cycle with a 6 to 9 months lead, this suggests that the economy is expected to
rebound within two years. However, while significant in the US and Germany, this
pattern holds for only one quarter of the countries.
  15
     12-month constant-horizon forecasts are calculated by interpolating between current- and next-
year forecasts. RPI inflation forecasts are used for the U.K. as CPI inflation forecasts only became
available in Jan 2004.
  16
     The large magnitudes of the mean estimates for future IP growth and future GDP growth are
primarily driven by Japan and Norway, both of which feature very low FTS incidences. Excluding
those two countries reduces the mean estimates from -13.758 and -14.870 to -5.350 and -8.723,
respectively.




                                                28
4        An Application: Do Hedge Funds Hedge Against
         FTS?
Hedge funds should in theory provide at least a partial protection against market
downturns. Those funds can go long and short and can invest in a wide array of
securities and derivative products, which could potentially provide positive returns
in all market environments. In fact, the name “hedge funds” suggest that they may
“hedge”, presumably, and likely in the mind of many investors, against bad times.
But do they? In this section, we examine how well hedge funds do in times of market
stress, as measured by our FTS dummy.
    We use monthly returns (in US Dollars) on the Dow Jones Credit Suisse Hedge
Fund indices over the period January 1994 - December 2010. The data comprise
an overall index and 13 diﬀerent hedge fund categories ranging from Convertible
Arbitrage to Global Macro. All returns are in excess of the US 3-month Treasury
bill yield. Our FTS variable is the monthly FTS incidence, as defined before.
    We run time series regressions of the form:

                                                           ′
                            ri,t = αi + βiF T S F T St + βi Ft + εi,t                       (4.1)

where F T St is the FTS incidence variable and Ft are risk factors. In a first speci-
fication, we only use the US equity market and its lag as risk factors, the latter to
control for illiquid positions that can only be slowly unwound. A second specification
uses the well-known Fung and Hsieh (2004) factors.17
    The results are reported in Table 13. The middle columns report the coeﬃcients
in the regressions with the current and lagged market factors, and the last column
reports the FTS beta in the regressions controlling for the Fung and Hsieh (2004)
factors (more detailed results are available upon request). A first striking result is
that, except for Dedicated Short Bias and Managed Futures, all categories have pos-
itive and significant market betas, even the market neutral categories. Lagged betas
are often significant as well. This result is not new and has been pointed out by
Asness, Krail, and Liew (2001) for hedge funds in general and Patton (2009) for mar-
    17
    The seven factors included in the Fung and Hsieh (2004) model are the excess return on the
S&P 500 index; a small minus big factor; the excess returns on portfolios of lookback straddle
options on currencies, commodities, and bonds; the yield spread of the US ten-year Treasury bond
over the three-month T-bill, adjusted for the duration of the ten-year bond; and the change in the
credit spread of the Moody’s BAA bond over the ten-year Treasury bond, adjusted for duration.
Fung and Hsieh (2004) and Fung, Hsieh, Naik, and Ramadorai (2008) have shown that these factors
have considerable explanatory power for fund of funds and hedge fund returns. Our results are
robust to including two additional trend chasing factors (short term interest rates; stock index)
and emerging markets as additional risk factors.


                                               29
ket neutral funds. Note that this means that most hedge fund categories (with the
natural exception of dedicated short bias) are bound to perform poorly in negative
market return environments. Our FTS beta measures the diﬀerential performance
after controlling for market risk during FTS events. We find that FTS betas are
negative for all but one category (Managed Futures is the exception). They are
statistically significant for the overall index, Event Driven, Event Driven Distressed,
Event Driven Multi-Strategy, and Fixed Income Arbitrage. Rather strikingly, even
the Dedicated Short Bias category has a negative (but insignificant) FTS beta of
nearly 4 percent. Note that the eﬀects are economically large, ranging between 1%
and 7%. The Managed Futures category seems to be the one hedge fund category
that has no systematic exposure to either market returns or FTS events. In the last
column of the table, we report the FTS betas from our second specification with the
Fung-Hsieh risk model. The results are largely unchanged.
    The negative exposure to FTS events is very robust and not easily explained.
For example, it is not simply hedge funds not responding well to high volatility
environments. In unreported work, we replace our FTS dummy by a high volatility
regime dummy (drawn from our bivariate regime switching model), but find the
eﬀects to become much weaker both in economic and statistical terms. Boyson,
Stahel, and Stulz (2010) suggest that hedge funds may experience contagion eﬀects
in response to large adverse shocks to asset and hedge fund liquidity, whereas Sadka
(2012) has shown that liquidity risk is an important factor in the cross-section of
hedge fund returns. Given that liquidity tends to dry up during FTS spells, the
negative FTS betas may reflect a liquidity eﬀect. However, when we add the liquidity
factors examined in Section 3.3 to the regression, we again find that our evidence
regarding FTS betas remains unchanged, even though some hedge fund categories
display significant liquidity betas.
    We conclude that hedge funds, with the exception of the Managed Futures cat-
egory, do not hedge against FTS events. We do point out that we find the alphas
of all categories, except Dedicated Short Bias and Emerging Markets, to be positive
and statistically significant, which remains true under the Fung-Hsieh model. Thus,
relative to our risk model, hedge funds on average generate alphas of 30 to 100 basis
points (per month). Titman and Tiu (2011) find that the best-performing hedge
funds have lower R2 ’s with respect to various systematic factors, but they do not
consider tail risk exposures. Indeed, Bollen (2013) documents that funds with low
R2 ’s relative to standard risk factors may have higher alphas on average but also a
higher probability of failure, potentially consistent with the funds having higher FTS
betas. Jiang and Kelly (2012) also find that hedge funds that lose value during high


                                          30
tail risk episodes earn higher average returns than funds that are hedged against
tail risks. Our finding that most hedge fund categories have significantly positive
alpha’s and negative and frequently significant FTS betas is potentially consistent
with their results if the high alpha funds dominate their aggregate fund categories.
However, the managed futures category appears to be an exception, as it has no
significant FTS exposure but still generates an overall significantly positive alpha.
Similar findings are documented by Cao, Rapach, and Zhou (2014), who examine
the performance of hedge fund categories in “good” and “bad” times and find that
the Global Macro, Managed Futures, and Multi-Strategy styles provide investors
with especially valuable hedges against bad times. It is also conceivable that the
broad categories might have masked individual hedge fund eﬀects, where some high
quality funds do indeed hedge against FTS events. It would be of interest to exam-
ine the performance of individual hedge funds with respect to their behavior during
FTS episodes in more detail.


5    Conclusions
We define a flight to safety event as a day on which bond returns are positive,
equity returns are negative, the stock bond return correlation is negative, and there
is market stress as reflected in elevated equity return volatility. Using only daily data
on equity and bond returns, we identify FTS episodes in 23 countries. On average,
FTS episodes comprise less than 3% of the sample, and bond returns exceed equity
returns by about 2.5 to 4% on those days. FTS events are mostly country-specific
as less than 25% can be characterized as global. Nevertheless, our methodology
identifies major market crashes, such as October 1987, the Russia crisis in 1998 and
the Lehman bankruptcy as FTS episodes. FTS episodes coincide with increases in
the VIX and the TED spread, decreases in consumer sentiment indicators in the
US, Germany and the OECD and appreciations of “safe-haven” currencies such as
the Yen, the Swiss franc, and the US dollar. In equity markets, the financial, basic
materials and industrial industries under-perform in FTS episodes, but the telecom
industry outperforms. In bond markets, money market securities and corporate
bonds have negative “FTS-betas”. Liquidity deteriorates on FTS days in both equity
and bond markets. Most commodity prices decrease sharply during FTS episodes,
whereas the gold price measured in dollars increases slightly. Both economic growth
and inflation decrease immediately following a FTS spell, and this decrease extends
to at least one year after the spell.
    We hope that our results will provide useful input to theorists positing theories


                                           31
regarding the origin and dynamics of flights to safety, or to asset pricers attempting
to uncover major tail events that may drive diﬀerences in expected returns across
diﬀerent stocks and/or asset classes. They could also inspire portfolio and risk
managers to look for portfolio strategies that may help insure against FTS-events,
especially since we show that standard hedge fund strategies do not provide such
insurance.




                                         32
References
Acharya, Viral V., Lasse H. Pedersen, Thomas Philippon, and Mattthew Richards,
  2012, Measuring systemic risk„ CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP8824.

Adrian, Tobias, and Markus K. Brunnermeier, 2011, CoVar, NBER Working Paper
 No. 17454.

Allen, Linda, Turan G. Bali, and Yi Tang, 2012, Does systemic risk in the financial
  sector predict future economic downturns?, Review of Financial Studies 25, 10.

Amihud, Yakov, 2002, Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series
 eﬀects, Journal of Financial Markets 5, 31–56.

Ang, Andrew, and Geert Bekaert, 2002a, International asset allocation with regime
 shifts, Review of Financial Studies 15, 1137–1187.

        , 2002b, Regime switches in interest rates, Journal of Business and Economic
  Statistics 20, 163–182.

Ang, Andrew, and Dennis Kristensen, 2012, Testing conditional factor models, Jour-
 nal of Financial Economics 106, 132–156.

Asness, Cliﬀord, Robert Krail, and John Liew, 2001, Do hedge funds hedge?, Journal
  of Portfolio Management 28.

Baele, Lieven, Geert Bekaert, and Koen Inghelbrecht, 2010, The determinants of
  stock and bond return comovements, Review of Financial Studies 23, 2374–2428.

Baker, Malcolm, and Jeﬀrey Wurgler, 2006, Investor sentiment and the cross-section
  of stock returns, Journal of Finance 61, 1645–1680.

Bansal, Naresh, Robert A. Connolly, and Christopher T. Stivers, 2010, Regime-
  switching in stock index and Treasury futures returns and measures of stock
  market stress, Journal of Futures Markets 30, 753–779.

Barsky, Robert B., 1989, Why don’t the prices of stocks and bonds move together,
  American Economic Review 79, 1132–1145.

Baur, Dirk G., and Brian M. Lucey, 2009, Flights and contagion–an empirical anal-
  ysis of stock-bond correlations, Journal of Financial Stability 5, 339–352.




                                        33
Beber, Alessandro, Michael W. Brandt, and Kenneth A. Kavajecz, 2009, Flight-to-
  quality or flight-to-liquidity? evidence from the euro-area bond market, Review
  of Financial Studies 22, 925–957.

Bekaert, Geert, and Eric Engstrom, 2009, Asset Return Dynamics under Bad Envi-
  ronment Good Environment Fundamentals, NBER Working Paper No. 15222.

       , and Yuhang Xing, 2009, Risk, uncertainty, and asset prices, Journal of
  Financial Economics 91, 59–82.

Bollen, N. P., 2013, Zero-r2 hedge funds and market neutrality, Journal of Financial
  and Quantitative Analysis 48, 519–547.

Boyson, Nicole M., Christof W. Stahel, and Rene M. Stulz, 2010, Hedge fund con-
  tagion and liquidity shocks, Journal of Finance 65, 1789–1816.

Brownlees, Christian T., and Robert F. Engle, 2011, Volatility, correlation and tails
  for systemic risk measurement„ Working Paper.

Brunnermeier, Markus K., and Lasse H. Pedersen, 2009, Market liquidity and fund-
  ing liquidity, Review of Financial Studies 22, 2201–2238.

Caballero, Ricardo J., and Arvind Krishnamurthy, 2008, Collective risk management
  in a flight to quality episode, Journal of Finance 63, 2195–2230.

Cao, Charles, David Rapach, and Guofu Zhou, 2014, Which hedge fund styles hedge
  against bad times?, Working Paper.

Chordia, T., A. Sarkar, and A. Subrahmanyam, 2005, An empirical analysis of stock
 and bond market liquidity, Review of Financial Studies 18, 85–129.

Connolly, Robert, Chris Stivers, and Licheng Sun, 2005, Stock market uncertainty
  and the stock-bond return relation, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Anal-
  ysis 40, 161–194.

Davies, Robert, 1987, Hypothesis testing when a nuisance parameter is present only
 under the alternative. 33-43, Biometrika 74, 33–43.

Engle, Robert F., Michael Fleming, Eric Ghysels, and Giang Nguyen, 2012, Liquid-
  ity, volatility, and flights-to-safety in the u.s. Treasury market: Evidence from a
  new class of dynamic order book models, Federal Reserve Bank of New York Staﬀ
  Report 590.



                                         34
Fontaine, Jean-Sébastien, and René Garcia, 2012, Bond liquidity premia, Review of
  Financial Studies 25, 1207–1254.

Fung, William, and David A. Hsieh, 2004, Hedge fund benchmarks: A risk based
  approach, Financial Analyst Journal 60, 65–80.

        , Narayan Y. Naik, and T. Ramadorai, 2008, Hedge funds: Performance,
  risk, and capital formation, Journal of Finance 63, 1777–1803.

Gilbert, Ethel S., 1968, On discrimination using qualitative variables, Journal of the
  American Statistical Association 63, 1399–1412.

Goyenko, Ruslan, and Sergei Sarkissian, 2012, Treasury bond illiquidity and global
 equity returns, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis forthcoming.

Goyenko, Ruslan, Avanidhar Subrahmanyam, and Andrey Ukhov, 2011, The term
 structure of bond market liquidity and its implications for expected bond returns,
 Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 46, 111–139.

Goyenko, Ruslan, and Andrey D. Ukhov, 2009, Stock and bond market liquidity: A
 long-run empirical analysis, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 44,
 189–212.

Goyenko, Ruslan Y., Craig W. Holden, and Charles A. Trzcinka, 2009, Do liquidity
 measures measure liquidity?, Journal of Financial Economics 92, 153–181.

Graveline, Jeremy J., and Matthew R. McBrady, 2011, Who makes on-the-run Trea-
  suries special?, Journal of Financial Intermediation 20, 620–632.

Gurkaynak, Refet S., Brian Sack, and Jonathan H. Wright, 2007, The U.S. Treasury
 yield curve: 1961 to the present, Journal of Monetary Economics 54, 2291–2304.

Hamilton, James D, 1994, Time Series Analysis (Princeton University Press: New
  York).

Holden, Craig W., 2009, New low-frequency spread measures, Journal of Financial
  Markets 12, 778–813.

Hollo, Daniel, Manfred Kremer, and Marco Lo Duca, 2012, Ciss - a composite
  indicator of systemic stress in the financial system„ ECB Working Paper No.
  1426.

Hu, Xing, Jun Pan, and Jiang Wang, 2013, Noise as information for illiquidiity,
 Journal of Finance 68, 2341–2382.

                                         35
Jiang, Hao, and Bryan Kelly, 2012, Tail risk and hedge fund returns, Chicago Booth
  Research Paper No. 12-44.

Jordan, Bradford D., and Susan D. Jordan, 1997, Special repo rates: An empirical
  analysis, Journal of Finance 52, 2051–2072.

Kim, Chang-Jin, 1994, Dynamic linear models with Markov-switching, Journal of
  Econometrics 60, 1–22.

Krishnamurthy, Arvind, 2002, The bond/old-bond spread, Journal of Financial Eco-
  nomics 66, 463–506.

Longstaﬀ, Francis, 2004, The flight to liquidity premium in US Treasury bond prices,
  Journal of Business 77, 511–526.

Mayfield, E. Scott, 2004, Estimating the market risk premium, Journal of Financial
 Economics 73, 465–496.

Naes, Randi, Johannes A. Skjeltorp, and Arne Odegaard, 2011, Stock market liq-
  uidity and the business cycle, Journal of Finance 66, 139–176.

Pasquariello, Paolo, and Clara Vega, 2009, The on-the-run liquidity phenomenon,
  Journal of Financial Economics 92, 1–24.

Pastor, Lubos, and Robert F. Stambaugh, 2003, Liquidity risk and expected stock
  returns, Journal of Political Economy 111, 642–85.

Patton, Andrew J., 2009, Are "market neutral" hedge funds really market neutral?,
  Review of Financial Studies 22, 2495–2530.

Perez-Quiros, Gabriel, and Allan Timmermann, 2001, Business cycle asymmetries
  in stock returns: Evidence from higher order moments and conditional densities,
  Journal of Econometrics 103, 259–306.

Roll, Richard, 1984, A simple implicit measure of the eﬀective bid-ask spread in an
  eﬃcient market, Journal of Finance 4, 1127–1139.

Sadka, Ronnie, 2012, Hedge-fund performance and liquidity risk, Journal of Invest-
  ment Management 10, 60–72.

Teugels, Jozef L., 1990, Some representations of the multivariate bernoulli and bi-
  nomial distributions, Journal of Multivariate Analysis 32, 256–268.



                                        36
Titman, Sheridan, and Cristian Tiu, 2011, Do the best hedge funds hedge?, Review
  of Financial Studies 24, 123–168.

Vayanos, Dimitri, 2004, Flight to quality, flight to liquidity, and the pricing of risk,
  NBER Working Paper No. 10327.

White, Halbert, 1980, A heteroskedasticity-consistent covariance-matrix estimator
 and a direct test for heteroskedasticity, Econometrica 48, 817–838.




                                          37
A     Calculation of Joint FTS Dummy
Assume {Xi , i = 1, 2, ..., n} is a sequence of Bernoulli random variables, where

                            P {Xi = 0} = qi ,                P {Xi = 1} = pi

where 0 < pi = 1 − qi < 1. The multivariate Bernoulli distribution is then repre-
sented by
                 pk1 ,k2 ,...,kn := P {X1 = k1 , X2 = k2 , ..., Xn = kn }

where ki ∈ {0, 1} and i = 1, 2, ..., n. Let p(n) be a vector containing the probabilities
of the 2n possible combinations of the n individual binary indicators. To define p(n) ,
we write k (with 1 ≤ k ≤ 2n ) as a binary expansion:

                                                         ∑
                                                         n
                                              k =1+            ki 2i−1
                                                         i=1


where ki ∈ {0, 1}. This expansion induces a 1-1 correspondence

                                              k ↔ (k1 , k2 , ..., kn )

so that
                                  (n)
                                 pk = pk1 ,k2 ,...,kn ,          1 ≤ k ≤ 2n

Teugels (1990) shows that p(n) can be calculated as:
                    [               ]       [                     ]             [            ]
                         1  1                     1     1                            1  1
          p(n) =                        ⊗                             ⊗ ... ⊗                    σ (n)
                        −pn qn                  −pn−1 qn−1                          −p1 q1

                (                             )T
                     (n)   (n)          (n)
where σ (n) =       σ1 , σ2 , ..., σ2n             is the vector of central moments than can be
calculated as                                       [ n                    ]
                                        (n)
                                                     ∏
                                     σk = E                 (Xi − pi )ki
                                                      i=1

In our application, n = 4, with pi corresponding to the FTS probability on a par-
ticular day based on the threshold model (i = 1), the Ordinal model (i = 2), and
smoothed probabilities from the univariate RS (i = 3) and bivariate RS (i = 4) mod-
els, respectively. The Bernoulli variables Xi , i = 1, .., 4 are set to 1 when pi > 0.5,
                                                            (n)
and zero otherwise. The vector of central moments σk is estimated over the full
sample. Our joint FTS dummy is set to one when on that particular day the prob-
ability that at least 3 FTS measures signal a FTS is larger than 50%, i.e. when
p1,1,1,1 + p1,1,1,0 + p1,1,0,1 + p1,0,1,1 + p0,1,1,1 > 0.5.

                                                        38
                          Table 1: The Ordinal FTS Measure
This table reports summary statistics for the Ordinal FTS measure discussed in Section
2.2.2. Column (1) reports summary statistics for the threshold level, calculated as the
minimum of the ordinal numbers on days that satisfy a set of “mild” FTS conditions.
Column (2) reports the percentage of observations that have an ordinal number above this
threshold. Column (3) reports how much of those observations have an ordinal measure
larger than 50% (calculated as 1 minus the percentage of false positives, i.e. the percentage
of observations with an ordinal number above the threshold that do not meet our FTS
criteria). Column (4) shows the percentage of observations in the full sample that have an
ordinal FTS probability larger than 50%.

                  (1)               (2)               (3)                           (4)
               Threshold       % observations % (obs > threshold)               % obs with
                 Level          > Threshold   with FTS prob. > 0.5            FTS prob. > 0.5
      US         0.772             6.9%              75.4%                         5.2%
   Germany       0.781             6.5%              98.7%                         6.4%
      UK         0.728             9.0%              65.3%                         5.9%
     Mean        0.723             10.5%             52.9%                         5.2%
    Median       0.723             10.3%             57.0%                         5.1%
     Min         0.650             4.8%              18.6%                         2.7%
     Max         0.804             19.3%             98.7%                         7.9%
 Interquartile   0.710             9.3%              39.1%                         4.6%
    Range        0.728             11.4%             64.9%                         6.3%




                                             39
             Table 2: Estimation Results Regime-Switching FTS models
Panel A presents the estimation results for the Univariate 3-state Regime-Switching model
described in Section 2.2.3. Panel B reports estimation results for the Bivariate Regime-
Switching FTS model with jump terms as described in Section 2.2.4. We show detailed
estimation results for the US, as well as the average and top/bottom quartile parameter
estimates across all 23 countries. ***, **, and * represent statistical significance at the 1,
5, and 10 percent level, respectively. The FTS duration is expressed in days.

                 Panel A: Univariate 3-state RS FTS Model
                                    US       Average      6th     17th
                  Regime-dependent Intercepts (expressed in daily %)
                      µ1        -0.046***     -0.057    -0.079 -0.039
                      µ2          -0.014      -0.020    -0.050 -0.007
                      µ3          0.218*       0.249     0.198    0.271
                  Annualized Volatility Estimates
                      σ1         0.097***      0.105     0.087    0.122
                      σ2         0.195***      0.201     0.166    0.217
                      σ3         0.465***      0.473     0.408    0.498
                 FTS duration       36.3        26.7      17.2     35.3
                   # spells          18         26.4       17       31

                 Panel B: Bivariate RS FTS Model
                                     US      Average     6th    17th
                 Equity: Intercept + Jump Terms (expressed in daily %)
                       α0         0.076***     0.069    0.050   0.085
                       α1         -1.275**    -2.367   -2.065 -0.246
                       α2         1.732***     3.021    1.257   1.991
                  Bond: Intercept + Jump Terms (expressed in daily %)
                       β0          0.02***     0.030    0.029   0.033
                       β1           -0.360    -0.775   -0.923 -0.332
                       β2        -0.691***    -0.243   -0.578   0.068
                  FTS Estimates (expressed in daily %)
                       α3        -7.863***    -5.216   -7.416 -1.628
                       β3          0.0001      0.814    0.000   0.976
                       ν          0.012***     2.079    0.014   0.047
                 Beta Estimates
                       β4         0.178***     0.030   -0.005   0.035
                       β5        -0.344***    -0.166   -0.197 -0.111
                 Annualized Volatility Estimates
                  hs (Sts = 1)    0.104***     0.110    0.093   0.132
                        s
                  hs (St = 2)     0.255***     0.286    0.246   0.324
                     (       )
                  hb Stb = 1      0.021***     0.016    0.013   0.018
                     ( b     )
                  hb St = 2       0.048***     0.036    0.031   0.038
                 FTS duration        89.9       86.8     58.1   101.2
                   # spells           24        16.2     10.1    18.5


                                             40
                    Table 3: Percentage Number of FTS Instances
This table reports the percentage of days that a FTS is observed according to our aggregate
FTS measure (Column 1) and 4 individual FTS measures (Columns 2 to 5). We show
country-specific results and summary statistics (average, median, min, max, interquartile
range) for our full sample of 23 countries.

                           (1)           (2)      (3)            (4)           (5)
       Country         Joint Prob.    Threshold Ordinal        Univ RS     Bivar RS
           US              3.00         0.74     5.17           7.98         21.74
       Germany             4.14         0.91     6.37           11.31       26.77
           UK              3.85         0.80     5.86           9.40         23.17
     Switzerland           2.24         0.60     5.68           7.05          6.95
         Japan             0.65         0.71     3.07           5.49         12.96
       Canada              2.72         0.83     4.74           8.56         19.26
        Sweden             4.75         0.70     6.66           14.59       28.20
       Australia           1.03         0.78     1.80           3.72         17.71
       Denmark             2.33         0.67     2.42           12.00       17.74
        France             3.21         1.31     6.34           7.85         17.32
       Belgium             3.67         0.74     4.34           8.83         16.66
          Italy            2.39         0.94     3.28           8.17         10.16
     New Zealand           0.31         0.72     1.82           1.99          1.78
     Netherlands           4.75         0.93     5.29           12.18       17.26
        Ireland            2.64         0.72     3.69           8.89         14.29
         Spain             4.31         1.05     5.67           12.09       23.73
        Austria            2.63         1.16     3.08           11.91       13.08
    Czech Republic         0.71         0.82     2.59           2.96          5.55
       Finland             3.02         0.93     4.76           19.20       14.80
        Greece             2.08         0.71     2.52           19.75       13.08
       Norway              0.26         0.70     0.16           10.83        3.52
        Poland             0.53         0.90     2.07           10.88        3.46
       Portugal            3.12         1.01     4.65           8.85         13.75
       Average             2.54         0.84     4.00           9.76         14.91
        Median             2.64         0.80     4.34           8.89         14.80
          Min              0.26         0.60     0.16           1.99          1.78
          Max              4.75         1.31     6.66           19.75       28.20
     Interquartile         1.29         0.71     2.53           7.88         10.86
        Range              3.55         0.93     5.58           11.97       18.88




                                            41
          Table 4: Contribution of each method to the joint FTS measure
This table reports the percentage overlap between the joint FTS dummy and one that
is based on the probability that all methods other than the one specified in the column
heading signal FTS.

                            Threshold      Ordinal    Univ RS     bivar RS
                   US        96.81%        17.93%     21.12%       17.93%
                Germany      98.85%        16.71%     17.87%       16.71%
                   UK        97.83%        18.01%     18.94%       17.08%
                Average      82.89%        24.32%     19.19%       22.23%
                 Median      93.89%        18.33%     17.87%       17.93%
               Minimum       0.00%         11.89%      0.00%        9.29%
               Maximum       98.85%        53.85%     37.50%       56.00%
              Interquartile  76.12%        15.99%     14.36%       15.38%
                 Range       95.71%        32.35%     22.40%       21.00%




                        Table 5: The Incidence of Global FTS
This table reports how many of the local FTS days are global in nature. We define a FTS
event to be global when at least two-thirds of all countries experience a FTS on that same
day. We report country-specific statistics for the US, Germany, and the UK, and summary
statistics (average, min, max, interquartile range) for our full sample of 23 countries.

                                       Joint Prob. Measure
                                   # FTS # global % global
                          US        251        35      13.9%
                      Germany       347        41      11.8%
                         UK         322        41      12.7%
                       Average      187        31      23.0%
                         Min         13         3      10.1%
                         Max        398        41      80.0%
                     Interquartile   94        25      14.0%
                        Range       275        40      22.9%




                                           42
                              Table 6: Transmission of FTS
This table reports the average percentage of countries other than the row country i that
are in a FTS conditional on country i being in a FTS. To account for asynchronous trading
times, we assume that any spillover from the US/Canada aﬀects Europe contemporaneously
or on the following day, and aﬀects the Pacific region on the following day. Pacific countries
are assumed to have a same day eﬀect on all other markets. European countries are assumed
to have a same-day eﬀect on the US/Canada, and a next-day impact on Pacific markets.
The first pair of columns considers all FTS days, while the second pair of columns exclude
global FTS days. The third pair of columns reports the percentage among the two days
preceding a global FTS that are categorized as a FTS for the specified country. We rank
countries (from high to low) based on the third column. Estimates that are more than 2
standard errors (calculated as the cross-sectional standard deviation divided by the square
root of 23, the number of countries) above the means are shown in bold.
                            All FTS days     excl. Global FTS   1-2 days before Global FTS
                            Rank    Perc     Rank      Perc     Rank            Perc
             UK              1    44.3%        1      45.5%       2           32.9%
         Germany             2    42.5%        2      41.3%       4           31.7%
          Sweden             3    39.9%        3      37.9%       5           30.5%
             US              4    33.7%        5      31.3%       2           32.9%
       Netherlands           5    30.9%        6      29.9%      14            17.1%
          France             6    29.8%        4      31.4%       1           34.1%
         Canada              7    29.6%        7      28.2%       6           26.8%
         Austria             8    28.9%        8      28.0%       7           25.6%
           Spain             9     27.8%       9      26.8%      14            17.1%
       Switzerland           10    26.9%      10      24.3%      10            22.0%
            Italy            11    25.4%      15      19.6%      10            22.0%
         Belgium             12    24.1%      12      21.8%      16            13.4%
         Finland             13    23.7%      11      21.8%      18            11.0%
          Ireland            14    23.3%      14      20.2%      12            19.5%
         Portugal            15    21.1%      13      20.2%      10            22.0%
         Denmark             16    18.8%      16      15.1%       8           23.2%
          Greece             17    15.1%      17      11.5%      14            17.1%
        Australia            18    13.1%      18      10.4%      17            12.2%
     Czech Republic          19     8.8%      20       5.1%      19            9.8%
          Poland             20     8.5%      22       2.4%      20            8.5%
           Japan             21     7.9%      19       7.8%      23            1.2%
         Norway              22     4.2%      23       2.3%      21            2.4%
       New Zealand           23     2.2%      21       2.8%      21            2.4%
  Summary Statistics
         Average              -     23.1%      -      21.1%       -           18.9%
           Stdev              -     11.8%      -      12.5%       -           10.2%
  Regional Averages
      North America           -     31.7%      -      29.8%       -           29.9%
          Europe              -     24.7%      -      22.5%       -           20.0%
   Europe - Developed         -     26.7%      -      24.8%       -           21.3%
    Europe - Emerging         -      8.6%      -      3.8%        -           9.1%
    Dev. Europe - euro        -     26.6%      -      24.8%       -           21.0%
  Dev. Europe - non-euro      -     26.8%    43-      25.0%       -           22.2%
     Europe - GIIPS           -     22.5%      -      19.6%       -           19.5%
          Pacific             -      7.7%      -      7.0%        -           5.3%
                                                Table 7: FTS Dummies and Alternative Stress Indicators
     This table reports estimates from regressions of changes in implied volatility measures, sentiment variables, safe have currency values and the TED spread
     on the joint aggregate FTS dummy (instances). VIX and country-specific implied volatility measures (i.e. VIX for US, Canada, VFTS for the UK, VDAX
     for the other European countries, and VJX for Japan, Australia and New Zealand), safe-haven currency values (i.e. the Swiss Franc, the Japanese Yen
     and the US dollar) and the TED spread (levels and changes) are available on a daily basis and are regressed on the FTS dummy. The sentiment variables
     are available on a monthly basis and are regressed on the fraction of FTS days within the month (expressed in decimals). Implied volatility and sentiment
     variables are expressed in absolute changes. The currency values are expressed in percentage changes (country currency per unit of safe currency). The
     sentiment variables include the Baker-Wurgler sentiment indicator (purged of business cycle fluctuations) and the Michigan consumer sentiment index which
     measure sentiment in the US, the Ifo Business Climate indicator (sentiment in Germany) and the (country-specific) OECD consumer confidence indicator
     (seasonally-adjusted). The TED spread data is not available for Ireland, Austria, Czech Republic and Poland. We show slope parameter estimates for the
     US, Germany and UK, as well as the average, standard deviation and top/bottom quartile parameter estimates across all 23 countries. The last column
     shows the number of countries for which the parameters estimates are significant at the 10% level. ***, **, and * represent statistical significance at the
     1, 5 and 10 percent level, respectively, using heteroskedasticity-consistent standard errors.

                                                      US        Germany          UK         Mean       Std       6th      17th     Sign.
                           Implied Volatility
44
                           VIX                     3.302***     1.707***      1.862***      1.686     0.891     1.017     1.781      22
                           Country-Specific        3.302***     2.112***      2.361***      2.542     1.405     1.461     3.302      23
                           Sentiment
                           Baker-Wurgler           -1.182**   -0.248    -0.575              -0.966    1.600 -0.979 -0.068            6
                           Michigan                 -3.676* -4.289*** -4.621**              -5.993   10.262 -4.289 -2.104            10
                           Ifo Business           -2.939*** -2.817*** -3.041***             -4.774    4.541 -4.152 -2.502            21
                           OECD                   -0.420*** -0.374*** -0.255***             -0.397    0.359 -0.561 -0.212            19
                           Currencies
                           Swiss Franc             0.057***     0.154***      0.239***      0.398     0.555     0.096     0.305      19
                           Japanese Yen             0.200*      0.291***      0.464***      0.723     0.690     0.282     0.635      22
                           US Dollar                   -          0.019       0.091**       0.347     0.553     0.067     0.342      19
                           TED Spread
                           Levels                  0.274***     0.217***       0.021**      0.006     0.666     -0.087    0.229      17
                           Changes                 0.029***       0.005         0.007       0.018     0.036     -0.001    0.016      5
                                                               Table 8: FTS and Equity Portfolios
     This table reports estimated slope coeﬃcients from regressions of stock portfolio returns on the joint aggregate FTS dummy. The stock portfolios include
     Datastream industry portfolios (10 industry classification), MSCI style portfolios (large caps, mid caps, small caps, value and growth), a SMB portfolio
     (i.e. return of small cap portfolio minus return of large cap portfolio), and a HML portfolio (i.e. return of value portfolio minus return of growth portfolio).
     The portfolio returns are expressed in percentages on a daily basis and are denominated in their original currencies. In the regressions, we control for
     beta risks by adding a global factor (world market return) and a local factor (local stock market return). We show slope parameter estimates for the US,
     Germany and UK, as well as the average, standard deviation and top/bottom quartile parameter estimates across all 23 countries. The last column shows
     the number of countries for which the parameters estimates are significant at the 10 percent level. ***, **, and * represent statistical significance at the 1,
     5 and 10 percent level, respectively, using heteroskedasticity-consistent standard errors.

                                                         US         Germany          UK         Mean       Std       6th      17th     Sign.
                            Industry Portfolios
                            Oil & Gas           -0.061               -0.359          0.045      -0.200    0.513    -0.381    0.110       9
                            Basic Materials   -0.296***              -0.048       -0.297***     -0.235    0.385    -0.355    -0.027      9
                            Industrials        -0.118**              -0.026         -0.015      -0.194    0.316    -0.353    -0.052      12
45                          Consumer Goods     0.173***              -0.075          0.093      -0.167    0.359    -0.329    0.093       8
                            Health Care        0.196***               0.009        0.141**      -0.180    0.867    -0.201    0.079       8
                            Consumer Services 0.142***               -0.012          0.026      -0.083    0.353    -0.203    0.142       8
                            Telecom            0.231**              0.365***       0.316***     0.304     0.544     0.181     0.373      17
                            Utilities           -0.105               -0.083          0.061      -0.085    0.364    -0.354    0.072       7
                            Financials        -0.288***             -0.224**      -0.234***     -0.244    0.279    -0.387    -0.171      16
                            Technology           0.107               -0.090       -0.459***     -0.119    0.363    -0.252    0.117       7
                            Style Portfolios
                            Large Cap                  0.026***      -0.117*   0.048***         0.151     0.327    -0.013     0.172      12
                            Mid Cap                   -0.130***     -0.331*** -0.189***         -0.188    0.192    -0.330    -0.064      11
                            Small Cap                 -0.173***       -0.156  -0.269***         -0.312    0.235    -0.470    -0.156      18
                            Value                       -0.047        -0.246     0.051          -0.040    0.102    -0.099    0.022       3
                            Growth                       0.042         0.007     0.020          0.099     0.162     0.007     0.155      6
                            SMB                       -0.197***       -0.040  -0.318***         -0.470    0.515    -0.692    -0.141      15
                            HML                         -0.089        -0.253     0.030          -0.139    0.201    -0.253    -0.025      6
                                                                     Table 9: FTS and Bonds
     This table reports estimated slope coeﬃcients from regressions of bond yields, spreads and portfolio returns on the joint aggregate FTS dummy. Panel A
     shows the results for the bond yields and spreads. For the yields, we consider the level, slope and curvature factors of the yield curve. The level factor
     is calculated as the average of the 3-month bill yield and the 5- and 10-year government bond yields, the slope factor as the 10-year government bond
     yield minus the 3-month bill yield, and the curvature factor as the sum of the 10-year goverment bond yield and the 3-month bill yield, minus two times
     the 5-year goverment bond yield. We also show results for the 10-year benchmark government bond yield and the monetary policy target rates. For the
     spreads, we consider two default spread measures, the yield on the AAA portfolio minus the 10-year government bond yield, and the yield on the BBB
     portfolio minus the yield on the AAA portfolio. The bond yields and spreads are expressed relative to a 150-day moving average. Regressions reported in
     Panel A have no other control variables. Panel B shows the results for returns on individual bond portfolios, including JP Morgan cash indices (1, 3, 6
     and 12 months), benchmark Datastream government bond indices (2, 5, 20 and 30 years), and BOFA ML coporate bond indices (with AAA, AA, A and
     BBB ratings). The corporate bond indices are only available for the US, Japan, Canada, Australia, and the Eurozone as a whole. We use the Eurozone
     corporate bond index for European countries and the corporate bond index of Australia for New Zealand. Panel C considers returns on 4 spread portfolios:
     the return on the 10-year government bond minus that on the 1-month cash index, the return on the 10-year goverment bond minus that on the 2-year
     goverment bond, the return on the 10-year goverment bond minus that on the AAA portfolio, and the return on the BBB portfolio minus that on the
     AAA portfolio. Thus, the first 2 portfolios primarily reacts to changes in the level of yields and term spread, and the latter 2 to changes in default risk.
     Regressions in Panel B and C control for the 10-year benchmark government bond return. In the regressions for the corporate bonds, we also control for
     the local stock market return. All yields, spreads and returns are daily and denominated in local currencies. We show estimated parameter loadings on the
     joint FTS indicator for the US, Germany and the UK, as well as the average, standard deviation and top/bottom quartile parameter estimates across all
     23 countries. The last 2 columns show the number of countries for which the parameters estimates are significant at the 10 percent level and the number
     of countries for which data is available, respectively. ***, **, and * represent statistical significance at the 1, 5 and 10 percent level, respectively, using
     heteroskedasticity-consistent standard errors.
46
                                                US              Germany           UK         Mean      Std       6th      17th      Sign.   Obs
                       Panel A: Yields and spreads
                       Gov Level            -0.447***           -0.276***     -0.302***     -0.128    0.520     -0.405 -0.109        21      23
                       Gov Slope            -0.209***           -0.152***       -0.059      -0.123    0.357     -0.258 -0.041        17      23
                       Gov Curvature         0.357***           0.355***      0.357***      0.191     0.699      0.184 0.428         21      23
                       Gov 10 Year          -0.442***           -0.293***     -0.264***     -0.134    0.509     -0.342 -0.179        21      23
                       MP Target Rates      -0.144***           -0.140***     -0.157***     -0.100    0.218     -0.140 0.001         18      23
                       AAA - Gov 10 Year 0.426***               0.131***      0.136***      0.027     0.449     -0.089 0.262         21      23
                       BBB - AAA             0.415***           0.666***      0.649***      0.557     0.292      0.379 0.780         20      23
                       Panel B: Bond portfolio returns
                       Cash 1 Month         -0.008***           -0.004***     -0.009***     -0.007    0.003     -0.010    -0.006     15      17
                       Cash 3 Month         -0.007***           -0.004***     -0.009***     -0.007    0.003     -0.009    -0.005     15      17
                       Cash 6 Month         -0.008***           -0.003***     -0.010***     -0.006    0.005     -0.010    -0.004     14      17
                       Cash 12 Month         -0.010**             -0.001       -0.009**     -0.005    0.006     -0.011    -0.001      7      16
                       Gov 2 Year           -0.019***             0.008*         -0.005     -0.001    0.031     -0.021     0.011     12      21
                       Gov 5 Year             -0.005            0.034***        0.025**     0.020     0.033     -0.003     0.036      9      23
                       Gov 20 Year                                -0.007      0.110***      0.013     0.045     -0.010     0.014      2       9
                       Gov 30 Year           0.157***              0.006      0.182***      0.039     0.078      0.006     0.052      3      12
                                        US     Germany      UK      Mean     Std    6th     17th     Sign.   Obs
     Panel B: Bond portfolio returns (continued)
     AAA                              -0.031      -0.007  -0.022    0.012    0.262 -0.047 -0.016       3     23
     AA                             -0.057*** -0.041** -0.050***    -0.010   0.262 -0.061 -0.043      21     23
     A                              -0.082*** -0.078*** -0.092***   -0.068   0.279 -0.132 -0.084      21     23
     BBB                            -0.078*** -0.070** -0.097***    -0.069   0.280 -0.138 -0.090      20     23
47   Panel C: Spread portfolio returns
     Gov 10 Year - Cash 1 Month 0.008*** 0.004*** 0.009***          0.007    0.003 0.004     0.009    15     17
     Gov 10 Year - 2 Year            0.019**     -0.008*   0.005    -0.001   0.032 -0.012    0.013    12     23
     Gov 10 Year - AAA                0.033*      0.006   -0.010    -0.105   0.275 -0.112   -0.006    11     23
     AAA - BBB                        0.042*     0.062** 0.065***   0.070    0.048 0.039     0.108    15     23
                                 Table 10: Liquidity and FTS
This table reports estimated slope coeﬃcients from regressions of US bond (Panel A) and equity
market (Panel B) illiquidity measures on the joint aggregate FTS dummy. Our bond market
illiquidity measures are (1) the monthly eﬀective spread, a cross-sectional monthly average of
proportional quoted spreads of Treasury bonds with a maturity of at most one year (in %), (2) the
daily Treasury on/oﬀ-the-run spread, calculated as the negative of the daily diﬀerence in yields
between an on-the-run Treasury bond and a synthetic oﬀ-the-run Treasury security with the same
coupon rate and maturity data (in basis points), and (3) the ‘noise’ measure of Hu, Pan, and Wang
(2013). Our equity market illiquidity measures are monthly cross-sectional averages of (1) the
eﬀective tick measure from Holden (2009), (2) Amihud (2002)’s price impact measure, and (3) the
negative of the Pastor and Stambaugh (2003) price impact measure. When the measures are non-
stationary over the sample, we use values relative to either a 150-day or 6-month moving average.
The regressions include only a constant and the FTS measure as independent variable. When the
illiquidity measure is only available at the monthly frequency, we regress it to the percentage of FTS
days within that month (expressed in decimals). ***, **, and * represent statistical significance at
the 1, 5 and 10 percent level, respectively, using heteroskedasticity-consistent standard errors.

                                                                        Level
                                                                    α           βF T S
                Panel A: Bond Illiquidity Measures
                       Proportional Spread                      -0.11*** 0.44***
                Treasury On/Oﬀ-the-run Premiums                 14.35*** 9.95***
               Noise Measure Hu, Pan, Wang (2012)               -0.12*** 1.22***
               Panel B: Equity Illiquidity Measures
                          Eﬀective Tick                         -0.04**      0.64***
                             Amihud                             2.46***      7.72***
                 (negative of) Pastor-Stambaugh                 0.02***      0.22***




                                                 48
                                                             Table 11: FTS and Commodity Prices
     This table reports estimated slope coeﬃcients in regressions of the S&P GSCI benchmark commodity index returns (in US dollar) on the joint aggregate
     FTS dummy, using the global equity market return (in US dollar) as a control. We consider broad indices (Commodity Total, Energy, Industrial Metals,
     Precious Metals, Agriculture, Livestock) and sub-indices (Crude Oil, Brent Crude Oil and Gold). The returns are expressed in percentage terms on a daily
     basis and are denominated in US dollar. We show FTS slope parameter estimates for the US, Germany and the UK, as well as the average, standard
     deviation and top/bottom quartile parameter estimates across all 23 countries. The last two columns report the average market beta as well as the number
     of countries for which the FTS slope parameter estimates are significant at the 10 percent level, respectively. ***, **, and * represent statistical significance
     at the 1, 5 and 10 percent level, respectively, using heteroskedasticity-consistent standard errors.

                                                     US        Germany       UK            Mean        Std       6th      17th
                                                                                                                            Beta Sign.
49                      Commodity Total          -0.396***     -0.306*** -0.393***         -0.294    -0.469    0.318 -0.590 0.306 20
                        Energy                   -0.501***     -0.373*** -0.454***         -0.444    -0.525    0.340 -0.678 0.332 18
                        Industrial Metals          -0.052       -0.239** -0.360***         -0.317    -0.406    0.238 -0.496 0.519 19
                        Precious Metals          0.467***      0.254***    0.196**         0.123      0.208    0.309 0.116 0.167  11
                        Agriculture               -0.183*        -0.121   -0.205**         0.182     -0.289    0.399 -0.282 0.253 11
                        Livestock                  -0.084       -0.114** -0.170***         -0.058    -0.152    0.146 -0.165 0.106  9
                        Crude Oil                -0.676***     -0.457*** -0.555***         -0.516    -0.611    0.376 -0.784 0.352 18
                        Brent Crude Oil          -0.521***       -0.201    -0.266*         -0.116    -0.512    0.513 -0.673 0.551 15
                        Gold                     0.470***      0.269***    0.219**         0.134      0.242    0.297 0.134 0.128  13
                                                           Table 12: FTS and the Macroeconomy
     This table reports estimated slope coeﬃcients from regressions of various macroeconomic variables on the fraction of FTS days within the month or quarter
     (expressed in decimals). The macroeconomic variables include 3-month changes in the CPI, industrial production (IP), the unemployment rate, and the
     OECD leading indicator over the next three months, as well as quarterly changes in real GDP and the investment-to-GDP ratio over the following quarter.
     For inflation, IP growth, GDP growth, the unemployment rate and investment growth, we also have monthly survey forecasts from Consensus Economics
     and we examine both the mean and the standard deviation of 12-month ahead individual forecasts 3 month hence. 12-month constant-horizon forecasts
     are calculated by interpolating between current- and next-year forecasts. In the lines with variables marked “future”, we regress annual growth rates or
     annual changes in the economic variables over the following year on the fraction of days of FTS instances within the month (expressed in decimals). We
     show slope parameter estimates for the US, Germany and the UK, as well as the average, standard deviation and top/bottom quartile parameter estimates
     across all 23 countries. The second to last column shows the number of countries for which the parameters estimates are significant at the 10 percent level.
     The last column shows the number of countries for which the real economy data is available. ***, **, and * represent statistical significance at the 1, 5
     and 10 percent level, respectively, using Newey-West standard errors (using either 6 quarterly or 24 monthly lags).

                                                              US   Germany        UK                Mean    Std             6th      17th     Sign. Obs
          Inflation                                       -1.374** -0.925*** -0.980**               -1.104 0.945          -1.374    -0.761     18   23
          Inflation Forecast Mean                         -2.718** -1.842*** -1.792*                -3.227 5.344          -2.623    -0.888     17   23
          Inflation Forecast St. Dev.                       0.229  0.106***      0.157              0.274  0.555          0.055      0.229      6   16
          Future Inflation                               -3.624*** -3.094*** -3.524**               -3.307 2.701          -3.958    -2.404     15   23
          IP Growth                                         -3.237  -4.215**   -2.448*              -6.603 8.410          -5.709    -2.448     10   14
50
          IP Growth Forecast Mean                           -5.356  -5.099** -4.261**               -6.339 5.575          -6.848    -3.182     16   22
          IP Growth Forecast St. Dev.                       0.466    1.242**   0.620**              1.139  1.147          0.471      0.941      8   15
          Future IP Growth                               -9.314***    -4.057    -5.761             -13.758 19.400         -9.917    -4.057      8   14
          GDP Growth                                     -2.273*** -2.904***    -1.738              -5.072 5.794          -5.665    -1.855     17   23
          GDP Growth Forecast Mean                          -2.512  -2.593**   -2.469*              -3.785 2.728          -5.312    -2.058     20   23
          GDP Growth Forecast St. Dev.                      0.149     0.139   0.194***              0.442  0.689          0.116      0.216      8   16
          Future GDP Growth                                 -4.370  -6.379**    -5.268             -14.870 21.934        -13.112    -3.912     13   23
          Unemployment                                   0.849***    0.272**     0.134              0.597  0.598          0.134      1.026     13   23
          Unemployment Forecast Mean                        0.725    0.473**   0.705**              1.069  0.963          0.473      1.088      7    9
          Unemployment Forecast St. Dev.                 0.080***      0.007     0.065              0.105  0.108          0.007      0.156      5    9
          Future Unemployment                             2.815**      0.462     0.619              3.006  3.857          0.732      2.815     12   23
          Investment/GDP                                  -0.960**    -0.318    -0.318              -1.499 2.759          -2.115    -0.083      6   20
          Investment Growth Forecast Mean                   -2.900  -2.958** -2.265***              -4.114 3.792          -7.951    -1.936      9   13
          Investment Growth Forecast St. Dev.            0.640***     -0.088 0.556***               0.503  0.742          0.061      0.640      5   13
          Future Investment/GDP                             -2.267    -0.344 -2.268***              -4.794 8.645          -4.143    -0.395      7   20
          OECD Leading Indicator                           -0.992*  -0.645** -0.577**               -1.308 1.652          -1.617    -0.577     15   23
          Future OECD Leading Indicator                    2.211*    2.889*      0.898              0.535  2.115          -0.777     1.671      5   23
                                                      Table 13: Hedge Fund Index returns and FTS
     This table reports estimated slope coeﬃcients from regressions of returns on diﬀerent hedge fund indices on a constant (α), the contemporaneous return
     on the S&P500 (βm (t)) and its first lag (βm (t − 1)), and our joint aggregate FTS dummy (βF T S ). The last column reports FTS betas (βFF THS ) from a
     regression which controls for the Fung and Hsieh (2008) risk factors. ***, **, and * represent statistical significance at the 1, 5, and 10 percent level,
     respectively, and are based on heteroskedasticity-consistent standard errors.

                                                                     α       βm (t)         βm (t − 1)    βF T S        R2          βFF THS
                           Hedge Fund Index (HFI)                0.007*** 0.246***            0.042     -0.034**       36.2%      -0.026**
                          Convertible Arbitrage HFI              0.005*** 0.139***          0.119***     -0.015        21.9%       -0.013
                          Dedicated Short Bias HFI                 0.003  -0.848***          -0.072      -0.039        58.5%       -0.038
51                          Emerging Markets HFI                   0.004   0.485***           0.098      -0.028        30.8%       -0.021
                         Equity Market Neutral HFI               0.006*** 0.123***            0.113      -0.074        21.5%       -0.074
                              Event Driven HFI                   0.007*** 0.211***          0.092*** -0.030***         51.4%     -0.031***
                         Event Driven Distressed HFI             0.007*** 0.223***          0.102*** -0.030***         48.9%     -0.031***
                       Event Driven Multi-Strategy HFI           0.007*** 0.204***          0.089*** -0.032**          43.3%     -0.033***
                       Event Driven Risk Arbitrage HFI           0.004*** 0.12***             0.026      -0.011        26.6%       -0.010
                         Fixed Income Arbitrage HFI              0.004***   0.093*           0.064*    -0.040***       24.3%     -0.031***
                              Global Macro HFI                   0.01***    0.141**          -0.033      -0.030        7.4%        -0.014
                           Long/Short Equity HFI                 0.006*** 0.395***            0.034      -0.022        43.6%       -0.016
                            Managed Futures HFI                  0.005**     -0.065          -0.081       0.002        2.1%         0.010
                             Multi-Strategy HFI                  0.005*** 0.104***          0.072***     -0.016        20.1%       -0.013
                                       Figure 1: FTS Incidence and Return Impact for the Threshold Model
     This figure plots the average cross-country incidence of FTS for κ ranging from 0 to 3, both in the actual data (solid line) and in data simulated
     from bivariate normal distributions (dashed line). For a given threshold level κ, we identify a FTS day as a day on which the bond return
     is κ standard deviations above zero and the equity return is κ standard deviations below zero. We allow for low-frequency variations in
     country-specific bond and equity return standard deviations as well as in their pairwise correlations, and model it using a symmetric kernel
     method with a bandwidth of 250 days. In the simulation exercise, we draw for each country stock and bond returns from a bivariate normal
     distribution with country-specific full-sample means and time-varying standard deviations and correlations, and report for each κ the average
     FTS incidence across countries. The dotted line plots for each κ the average cross-country return impact on FTS days, where the return impact
     is calculated as the diﬀerence between the country-specific bond and equity returns.




52
                                             Figure 2: Ordinal Indicator: US, Germany, and UK
     The left panels plot the ordinal FTS indices for the US, Germany, and the UK and the corresponding minimum threshold levels, calculated
     as the minimum of all ordinal values for which the minimal FTS conditions hold. The right panels plot the derived ordinal FTS measures.
     Values above 0.5 are depicted in black, and values below 0.5 in light grey.




53
                                             Figure 3: Aggregate FTS Measure and Dummy, US
     The top panel of this figure plots the joint FTS probability for the US. The bottom panel plots the corresponding joint FTS dummy, which
                                     equals one when the FTS probability is larger than 50%, and zero otherwise.




54
               Figure 4: Return Impact before, during, and after FTS
This figure plots the average return across all countries and their cross-country interquartile
range before, during, and after a FTS spell for equities (Panel A), bonds (Panel B), and
return impact (Panel C) in event time. For each FTS spell, we calculate the average returns
(1) in the 5 days before the start of the spell, (2) on the day right before the start of the
spell, (3) on the first day of the spell, (4) on any subsequent day within the spell (except
that last one), (5) on the last day of the spell, (6) on the first day following the spell, and
(7) during the 5 days following a spell.
                                      Panel A: Equities




                                       Panel B: Bonds




                                  Panel C: Return Impact




                                              55
                        Figure 5: The Persistence of FTS Events
This figure plots the average number of FTS spells that last 1, 2, 3, 4 to 9, 10 to 49, 50 to 99,
or 100 days or more based on each of the 4 individual methods as well as for the aggregated
measure. For reference, the average number of FTS spells for each methodology is 54 for
the threshold model, 139 for the ordinal model, 26 for the univariate regime-switching
model, 15 for the bivariate regime-switching model, and 83 for the joint measure.




                                               56
                          Figure 6: Percentage of Countries in FTS
     This figure plots the percentage of countries experiencing a FTS at each point in time.




57
