 
 Market Return Around the Clock: A Puzzle | Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis | Cambridge Core 
 Skip to main content
 Accessibility help
 Login Alert 
 Cancel 
 Log in 
 × 
 × 
 Temporary Disruption We have implemented additional assurance measures to protect our systems. As a result, we have suspended some of our systems and services. We apologise for any temporary disruption some customers may experience. 
 Discover Content Products and Services Register Log In 
 Logo for Cambridge Core from Cambridge University Press. Click to return to homepage. Search Logo for Cambridge Core from Cambridge University Press. Click to return to homepage. Browse Services Open research Institution Login Search Menu links Browse Subjects Subjects (A-D) Anthropology Archaeology Area Studies Art Chemistry Classical Studies Computer Science Drama, Theatre, Performance Studies Subjects (E-K) Earth and Environmental Science Economics Education Engineering English Language Teaching – Resources for Teachers Film, Media, Mass Communication General Science Geography History Subjects (L-O) Language and Linguistics Law Life Sciences Literature Management Materials Science Mathematics Medicine Music Nutrition Subjects (P-Z) Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Politics and International Relations Psychiatry Psychology Religion Social Science Research Methods Sociology Statistics and Probability Open access All open access publishing Open access Open access journals Research open journals Journals containing open access Open access articles Open access books Open access Elements Journals Explore All journal subjects Search journals Open access Open access journals Research open journals Journals containing open access Open access articles Collections Cambridge Forum Cambridge Law Reports Collection Cambridge Prisms Research Directions Books Explore Books Open access books New books Flip it Open Collections Cambridge Companions Cambridge Editions Cambridge Histories Cambridge Library Collection Cambridge Shakespeare Cambridge Handbooks Collections (cont.) Dispute Settlement Reports Online Flip it Open Hemingway Letters Shakespeare Survey Stahl Online The Correspondence of Isaac Newton Elements Explore About Elements Elements series Open access Elements New Elements Subjects (A-E) Anthropology Archaeology Classical Studies Computer Science Drama, Theatre, Performance Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Education Engineering Subjects (F-O) Film, Media, Mass Communication History Language and Linguistics Law Life Sciences Literature Management Mathematics Medicine Music Subjects (P-Z) Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Politics and International Relations Psychology Religion Sociology Statistics and Probability Textbooks Explore Cambridge Higher Education Title list New titles Collections Book collections Cambridge Companions Cambridge Editions Cambridge Histories Cambridge Library Collection Cambridge Shakespeare Cambridge Handbooks Book collections (cont.) Dispute Settlement Reports Online Flip it Open Hemingway Letters Shakespeare Survey Stahl Online The Correspondence of Isaac Newton Journal collections Cambridge Forum Cambridge Law Reports Collection Cambridge Materials Cambridge Prisms Series All series Partners Partners Agenda Publishing Anthem Press ARC Humanities Press Boydell & Brewer Bristol University Press Central European University Press Edinburgh University Press Emirates Center for Strategic Studies and Research Facet Publishing Foundation Books Partners (cont.) Gerlach Press Intersentia ISEAS-Yusof Ishak Institute Jagiellonian University Press Manchester University Press Multilingual Matters Oxbow Books Royal Economic Society The University of Adelaide Press Unisa Press Partners (cont.) Wits University Press Services About About Cambridge Core About Accessibility statement CrossMark policy Ethical Standards Environment and sustainability Environment and sustainability Reducing print Journals moving to online only Guides User guides User Guides and Videos Support Videos Training Help Cambridge Core help Contact us Technical support Agents Services for agents Services for agents Journals for agents Books for agents Price list Authors Journals Journal authors Journal publishing statistics Corresponding author Seeking permission to use copyrighted material Publishing supplementary material Preparing accessible materials Journal production - FAQs Journals (cont.) Author affiliations Co-reviewing policy Anonymising your manuscript Publishing open access Convert your article to Gold Open Access Publishing Open Access - webinars Journals (cont.) Preparing and submitting your paper Journals publication journey Publishing agreement FAQs for journal authors Author Information Form FAQs Promoting your published paper Measuring impact Journals artwork guide Using ORCID Books Books Publishing your book open access Marketing your book Author guides for Cambridge Elements Corporates Corporates Commercial reprints Advertising Sponsorship Book special sales Contact us Editors Information Journal development Peer review for editors Open access for editors Policies and guidelines Resources The editor's role Open research for editors Engagement and promotion for editors Librarians Information Open Access for Librarians Transformative agreements Transformative Agreements - FAQs Evidence based acquisition Cambridge libraries of the world podcast Purchasing models Journals Publishing Updates Products Cambridge frontlist Cambridge journals digital archive Hot topics Other digital products Perpetual access products Price list Developing country programme New content Tools Eligibility checker Transformative agreements KBART MARC records Using MARCEdit for MARC records Inbound OpenURL specifications COUNTER usage reporting Resources Catalogues and resources Making the most of your EBA Posters Leaflets and brochures Additional resources Find my sales contact Training Read and publish resources Peer review Peer review How to peer review journal articles How to peer review book proposals How to peer review Registered Reports Peer review FAQs Ethics in peer review Online peer review systems A guide to Publons Publishing ethics Journals Publishing ethics guidelines for journals Core editorial policies for journals Authorship and contributorship for journals Affiliations for journals Research ethics for journals Competing interests and funding for journals Journals (cont.) Data and supporting evidence for journals Misconduct for journals Corrections, retractions and removals for journals Versions and adaptations for journals Libel, defamation and freedom of expression Business ethics journals Books Publishing ethics guidelines for books Core editorial policies for books Authorship and contributorship for books Affiliations for books Research ethics for books Competing interests and funding for books Books (cont.) Data and supporting evidence for books Misconduct for books Corrections, retractions and removals for books Versions and adaptations for books Libel, defamation and freedom of expression Business ethics books Publishing partners Publishing partners Publishing partnerships Book publishing partners eBook publishing partnerships Journal publishing partnerships Publishing partners (cont.) Journals publishing Customer support Membership Services Our Team Open research Open access policies Open access policies Open research Open access policies Cambridge University Press and Plan S Text and data mining Preprint policy Social sharing Journals Open access journals Gold Open Access journals Transformative journals Green Open Access policy for journals Transparent pricing policy for journals Books and Elements Open access books Gold open access books Green Open Access policy for books Open access Elements Open access publishing About open access Open research Open Access Week What is open access? Open access glossary Open access myths Hybrid Open Access FAQs Eligibility checker Open access resources Open access resources Benefits of open access Creative commons licences Funder policies and mandates Article type definitions Convert your article to Gold Open Access Open research initiatives Research transparency Transparency and openness Open Practice Badges OA organisations, initiatives & directories Registered Reports Annotation for Transparent Inquiry (ATI) Journal flips Open access journal flips OA Journal Flip FAQs Flip it Open Flip it Open Flip it Open FAQs Open access funding Open access funding Funding open access publication Cambridge Open Equity Initiative Completing a RightsLink (open access) transaction Cambridge Open Engage Cambridge Open Engage Cambridge Open Engage Partner With Us Branded Hubs Event Workspaces Partner Resources APSA Preprints APSA Preprints FAQs 
 Hostname: page-component-8678677fb7-zddkp
 Total loading time: 0
 Render date: 2026-10-03T04:28:24.636Z
 Has data issue: false
 hasContentIssue false
 Home > Journals > Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis > Volume 58 Issue 3 > Market Return Around the Clock: A Puzzle English 
 Français
 Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis
 Article contents Abstract Footnotes References Market Return Around the Clock: A Puzzle 
 Published online by Cambridge University Press: 
 25 July 2022 Oleg Bondarenko  and Dmitriy Muravyev [Opens in a new window] Show author details
 Oleg Bondarenko Affiliation: College of Business Administration,University of Illinois at Chicago olegb@uic.edu 
 Dmitriy Muravyev* Affiliation: Eli Broad College of Business, Michigan State University 
 *
 muravyev@msu.edu (corresponding author) Article
 Supplementary materials
 Metrics
 Article contents Abstract Footnotes References Get access Share Cite Rights & Permissions
 [Opens in a new window] Abstract We study how the market return depends on the time of the day using E-mini S&P 500 futures actively traded around the clock. Strikingly, 4 hours around European open account for the entire average market return. This period’s returns have a 1.6 Sharpe ratio and remain high after transaction costs. Average returns are a noisy zero during the remaining 20 hours. High returns are consistent with European investors processing information accumulated overnight and thus resolving uncertainty. Indeed, uncertainty reflected by VIX futures prices rises overnight and falls around European open. The results are stronger during the 2020 COVID crisis. Information 
 Type
 Research Article 
 Information
 Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis
 ,
 Volume 58
 ,
 Issue 3
 , May 2023 , pp. 939 - 967 DOI: https://doi.org/10.1017/S0022109022000783
 [Opens in a new window] 
 Copyright
 © The Author(s), 2022. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of the Michael G. Foster School of Business, University of Washington
 Access options Get access to the full version of this content by using one of the access options below. (Log in options will check for institutional or personal access. Content may require purchase if you do not have access.) Article purchase Temporarily unavailable Footnotes Muravyev is also an Associate Research Fellow with the Canadian Derivatives Institute. We greatly appreciate comments from Ferhat Akbas, Hendrik Bessembinder (the editor), Vincent Bogousslavsky, David Brown (discussant), Yixin Chen (discussant), Peter Ciampi, Andrei Goncalves, Ryan Israelsen, Chao Jiang (discussant), Naveen Khanna, Paul Koch (the referee), Charles Martineau (discussant), Dermot Murphy, Neil Pearson, Jeff Pontiff, Angelo Ranaldo, Dominik Roesch, Pavel Savor, Andrei Simonov, Paul Whelan (discussant), Haoxiang Zhu, Eric Zitzewitz and seminar participants at Michigan State University, University of Illinois at Chicago, 2020 NFA Annual Meeting, Seminario Académico CEA-MIPP Chile, the 2020 Virtual Finance Seminar, the 2020 CDI Derivatives Conference, the 2021 MFA Annual Meeting, the 2021 SFS Cavalcade Conference, and the 2021 EFA Annual Meeting. We also thank CME DataMine, TickData, and FirstRate Data for providing intraday futures data. We thank Julia Dougherty and Suzanna Emelio for their editorial assistance. References 
 Aboody , D. ; Even-Tov , O. ; Lehavy , R. ; and Trueman , B. . “ Overnight Returns and Firm-Specific Investor Sentiment .” Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , 53 ( 2018 ), 485 – 505 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Admati , A. R. , and Pfleiderer , P. . “ Divide and Conquer: A Theory of Intraday and Day-of-the-Week Mean Effects .” Review of Financial Studies , 2 ( 1989 ), 189 – 223 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Akbas , F. ; Boehmer , E. ; Jiang , C. ; and Koch , P. D. . “ Overnight Returns, Daytime Reversals, and Future Stock Returns. ” Journal of Financial Economics , 145 ( 2022 ), 850 – 875 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Albuquerque , R. “ Skewness in Stock Returns: Reconciling the Evidence on Firm Versus Aggregate Returns .” Review of Financial Studies , 25 ( 2012 ), 1630 – 1673 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Amihud , Y. , and Mendelson , H. . “ Trading Mechanisms and Stock Returns: An Empirical Investigation .” Journal of Finance , 42 ( 1987 ), 533 – 553 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Anand , A. ; Irvine , P. ; Puckett , A. ; and Venkataraman , K. . “ Performance of Institutional Trading Desks: An Analysis of Persistence in Trading Costs .” Review of Financial Studies , 25 ( 2012 ), 557 – 598 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Baker , S. R. ; Bloom , N. ; and Davis , S. J. . “ Measuring Economic Policy Uncertainty .” Quarterly Journal of Economics , 131 ( 2016 ), 1593 – 1636 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Baker , S. B. ; Bloom , N. ; Davis , S. J. ; and Renault , T. . “Economic Uncertainty Measures Derived from Twitter.” Working Paper ( 2020 ). Google Scholar 
 Baker , M. , and Wurgler , J. . “ Investor Sentiment and the Cross‐Section of Stock Returns .” Journal of Finance , 61 ( 2006 ), 1645 – 1680 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Berkman , H. ; Koch , P. D. ; Tuttle , L. ; and Zhang , Y. J. . “ Paying Attention: Overnight Returns and the Hidden Cost of Buying at the Open .” Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , 47 ( 2012 ), 715 – 741 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Black , F. “ Noise .” Journal of Finance , 41 ( 1986 ), 528 – 543 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Bloom , N. “ The Impact of Uncertainty Shocks .” Econometrica , 77 ( 2009 ), 623 – 685 . Google Scholar 
 Bogousslavsky , V. . “ The Cross-Section of Intraday and Overnight Returns .” Journal of Financial Economics , 14 ( 2021 ), 172 – 194 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Bogousslavsky , V. , and Muravyev , D. . “Who Trades at the Close? Implications for Price Discovery, Liquidity, and Disagreement.” Working Paper ( 2021 ). Google Scholar 
 Boyarchenko , N. ; Larsen , L. C. ; and Whelan , P. . “The Overnight Drift.” Working Paper, available at https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3546173 ( 2021 ). CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Branch , B. S. , and Ma , A. J. . “ Overnight Return, the Invisible Hand Behind Intraday Returns? ” Journal of Applied Finance , 22 ( 2012 ). Google Scholar 
 Breedon , F. , and Ranaldo , A. . “ Intraday Patterns in FX Returns and Order Flow .” Journal of Money, Credit and Banking , 45 ( 2013 ), 953 – 965 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Campbell , J. Y. , and Thompson , S. B. . “ Predicting Excess Stock Returns out of Sample: Can Anything Beat the Historical Average? ” Review of Financial Studies , 21 ( 2008 ), 1509 – 1531 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Capponi , A. ; Menkveld , A. J. ; and Zhang , H. . “Large Orders in Small Markets: On Optimal Execution with Endogenous Liquidity Supply.” Available at SSRN 3326313 ( 2019 ). CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Carchano , Ó. , and Pardo , Á. . “ Rolling over Stock Index Futures Contracts .” Journal of Futures Markets: Futures, Options, and Other Derivative Products , 29 ( 2009 ), 684 – 694 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Cliff , M. ; Cooper , M. J. ; and Gulen , H. . “Return Differences Between Trading and Non-Trading Hours: Like Night And Day.” Working Paper, available at https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1004081 ( 2008 ). CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Dixit , A. K. , and Pindyck , R. S. , Investment under Uncertainty . Princeton, NJ : Princeton University Press , 1994 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Easley , D. , and O’Hara , M. . “ Information and the Cost of Capital .” Journal of Finance , 59 ( 2004 ), 1553 – 1583 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Epstein , L. G. , and Zin , S. E. V. . “ Risk Aversion, and the Temporal Behavior of Consumption and Asset Returns: A Theoretical Framework .” Econometrica , 57 ( 1989 ), 937 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Foster , F. D. , and Viswanathan , S. . “ A Theory of the Interday Variations in Volume, Variance, and Trading Costs in Securities Markets .” Review of Financial Studies , 3 ( 1990 ), 593 – 624 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Frazzini , A. ; Israel , R. ; and Moskowitz , T. J. “Trading Costs of Asset Pricing Anomalies.” Fama-Miller Working Paper, available at https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2294498 ( 2012 ). CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Gao , L. ; Han , Y. ; Li , S. Z. ; and Zhou , G. . “ Market Intraday Momentum .” Journal of Financial Economics , 129 ( 2018 ), 394 – 414 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Gregoire , V. , and Martineau , C. . “How is Earnings News Transmitted to Stock Prices?” Available at SSRN 3060094 ( 2019 ). Google Scholar 
 Hansen , P. R. ; Lunde , A. ; and Nason , J. M. . “ The Model Confidence Set .” Econometrica , 79 ( 2011 ), 453 – 497 . Google Scholar 
 Harris , L. “ A Transaction Data Study of Weekly and Intradaily Patterns in Stock Returns .” Journal of Financial Economics , 16 ( 1986 ), 99 – 117 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Harvey , C. R. ; Liu , Y. ; and Zhu , H. . “ … and the Cross-Section of Expected Returns .” Review of Financial Studies , 29 ( 2016 ), 5 – 68 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Hasbrouck , J. “ Intraday Price Formation in US Equity Index Markets .” Journal of Finance , 58 ( 2003 ), 2375 – 2400 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Hendershott , T. ; Livdan , D. ; and Rösch , D. . “ Asset Pricing: A Tale of Night and Day .” Journal of Financial Economics , 138 ( 2020 ), 635 – 662 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Hong , H. , and Wang , J. . “ Trading and Returns under Periodic Market Closures .” Journal of Finance , 55 ( 2000 ), 297 – 354 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Hu , G. X. , Pan , J. ; Wang , J. ; and Zhu , H. . “Premium for Heightened Uncertainty: Solving the FOMC Puzzle (No. w25817).” National Bureau of Economic Research ( 2019 ). CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Johnson , T. C. “ Rethinking Reversals .” Journal of Financial Economics , 120 ( 2016 ), 211 – 228 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Kawaller , I. G. ; Koch , P. D. ; and Koch , T. W. . The Temporal Price Relationship between S&P 500 Futures and the S&P 500 Index . Journal of Finance , 42 ( 1987 ), 1309 – 1329 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Kelly , M. A. , and Clark , S. P. . “ Returns in Trading Versus Non-trading Hours: The Difference Is Day and Night .” Journal of Asset Management , 12 ( 2011 ), 132 – 1345 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Longstaff , F. A. “ How Much can Marketability Affect Security Values? ” Journal of Finance , 50 ( 1995 ), 1767 – 1774 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Lou , D. ; Polk , C. ; and Skouras , S. . “ A Tug of War: Overnight Versus Intraday Expected Returns .” Journal of Financial Economics , 134 ( 2019 ), 192 – 213 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Lucca , D. O. , and Moench , E. . “ The Pre‐FOMC Announcement Drift .” Journal of Finance , 70 ( 2015 ), 329 – 371 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Muravyev , D. , and Ni , X. C. . “ Why Do Option Returns Change Sign from Day to Night? ” Journal of Financial Economics , 136 ( 2020 ), 219 – 238 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Newey , W. K. , and West , K. D. . “ A Simple, Positive Semi-Definite, Heteroskedasticity and Autocorrelation Consistent Covariance Matrix .” Econometrica , 55 ( 1986 ), 703 – 708 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Pastor , L. , and Veronesi , P. . “ Uncertainty About Government Policy and Stock Prices .” Journal of Finance , 67 ( 2012 ), 1219 – 1264 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Ranaldo , A. “ Segmentation and Time-of-Day Patterns in Foreign Exchange Markets .” Journal of Banking & Finance , 33 ( 2009 ), 2199 – 2206 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Rogalski , R. J. “ New Findings Regarding Day‐of‐the‐Week Returns over Trading and Non‐Trading Periods: A Note .” Journal of Finance , 39 ( 1984 ), 1603 – 1614 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Romano , J. P. , and Wolf , M. . “ Stepwise Multiple Testing as Formalized Data Snooping .” Econometrica , 73 ( 2005 ), 1237 – 1282 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Slezak , S. L. “ A Theory of the Dynamics of Security Returns around Market Closures .” Journal of Finance , 49 ( 1994 ), 1163 –211. CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Smirlock , M. , and Starks , L. . “ Day-of-the-Week and Intraday Effects in Stock Returns .” Journal of Financial Economics , 17 ( 1986 ), 197 – 210 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Stroud , J. R. , and Johannes , M. S. . “ Bayesian Modeling and Forecasting of 24-Hour High-Frequency Volatility .” JASA , 109 ( 2014 ), 1368 – 1384 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Whaley , R. E. “ Trading Volatility: At What Cost? ”. Journal of Portfolio Management , 40 ( 2013 ), 95 – 108 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 White , H. “ A Reality Check for Data Snooping .” Econometrica , 68 ( 2000 ), 1097 – 1126 . CrossRef Google Scholar 
 Wood , R. A. ; McInish , T. H. ; and Ord , J. K. . “ An Investigation of Transactions Data for NYSE Stocks .” Journal of Finance , 40 ( 1985 ), 723 – 739 . CrossRef Google Scholar Bondarenko and Muravyev supplementary material Bondarenko and Muravyev supplementary material 
 PDF
 1 MB
 16 Cited by Cited by Loading... 
 Cited by 
 0 
 No CrossRef data available. 
 Google Scholar Citations 
 View all Google Scholar citations 
 for this article.
 × 
 Our Site Accessibility Contact & Help Legal Notices Cookie Settings Cancel your order Quick Links Cambridge Core Cambridge Open Engage Cambridge Aspire website Our Products Journals Books Elements Textbooks Courseware Join us online Location Please choose a valid location. Update Legal Information Rights & Permissions Copyright Privacy Notice Terms of Use Cookies Policy Cambridge University Press 2026 
 Cancel 
 Confirm 
 × 
 Save article to Kindle 
 To send this article to your Kindle, first ensure no-reply@cambridge.org is added to your Approved Personal Document E-mail List under your Personal Document Settings on the Manage Your Content and Devices page of your Amazon account. Then enter the ‘name’ part of your Kindle email address below. Find out more about sending to your Kindle.
 Find out more about saving to your Kindle .
 Note you can select to save to either the @free.kindle.com or @kindle.com variations. ‘@free.kindle.com’ emails are free but can only be saved to your device when it is connected to wi-fi. ‘@kindle.com’ emails can be delivered even when you are not connected to wi-fi, but note that service fees apply.
 Find out more about the Kindle Personal Document Service. 
 Market Return Around the Clock: A Puzzle 
 Volume 58, Issue 3 
 Oleg Bondarenko (a1) and Dmitriy Muravyev (a2) 
 DOI: https://doi.org/10.1017/S0022109022000783 
 Your Kindle email address 
 Please provide your Kindle email. 
 @free.kindle.com 
 @kindle.com ( service fees apply ) 
 Available formats 
 PDF
 Please select a format to save. 
 By using this service, you agree that you will only keep content for personal use, and will not openly distribute them via Dropbox, Google Drive or other file sharing services
 Please confirm that you accept the terms of use. 
 Cancel 
 Save
 × 
 Save article to Dropbox 
 To save this article to your Dropbox account, please select one or more formats and confirm that you agree to abide by our usage policies. If this is the first time you used this feature, you will be asked to authorise Cambridge Core to connect with your Dropbox account.
 Find out more about saving content to Dropbox .
 Market Return Around the Clock: A Puzzle 
 Volume 58, Issue 3 
 Oleg Bondarenko (a1) and Dmitriy Muravyev (a2) 
 DOI: https://doi.org/10.1017/S0022109022000783 
 Available formats 
 PDF
 Please select a format to save. 
 By using this service, you agree that you will only keep content for personal use, and will not openly distribute them via Dropbox, Google Drive or other file sharing services
 Please confirm that you accept the terms of use. 
 Cancel 
 Save
 × 
 Save article to Google Drive 
 To save this article to your Google Drive account, please select one or more formats and confirm that you agree to abide by our usage policies. If this is the first time you used this feature, you will be asked to authorise Cambridge Core to connect with your Google Drive account.
 Find out more about saving content to Google Drive .
 Market Return Around the Clock: A Puzzle 
 Volume 58, Issue 3 
 Oleg Bondarenko (a1) and Dmitriy Muravyev (a2) 
 DOI: https://doi.org/10.1017/S0022109022000783 
 Available formats 
 PDF
 Please select a format to save. 
 By using this service, you agree that you will only keep content for personal use, and will not openly distribute them via Dropbox, Google Drive or other file sharing services
 Please confirm that you accept the terms of use. 
 Cancel 
 Save
 × 
 × 
 Reply to: 
 Submit a response 
 Title *
 Please enter a title for your response. 
 Contents * 
 Contents help 
 Close Contents help 
 - No HTML tags allowed - Web page URLs will display as text only - Lines and paragraphs break automatically - Attachments, images or tables are not permitted 
 Please enter your response. 
 Your details 
 First name *
 Please enter a valid first name. Only letters, spaces, hyphens, apostrophes, and periods are allowed. 
 Last name *
 Please enter a valid last name. Only letters, spaces, hyphens, apostrophes, and periods are allowed. 
 Email * 
 Email help 
 Close Email help 
 Your email address will be used in order to notify you when your comment has been reviewed by the moderator and in case the author(s) of the article or the moderator need to contact you directly. 
 Please enter a valid email address. 
 Occupation
 Please enter your occupation. 
 Affiliation
 Please enter any affiliation. 
 You have entered the maximum number of contributors 
 Conflicting interests 
 Do you have any conflicting interests? *
 Conflicting interests help 
 Close Conflicting interests help 
 Please list any fees and grants from, employment by, consultancy for, shared ownership in or any close relationship with, at any time over the preceding 36 months, any organisation whose interests may be affected by the publication of the response. Please also list any non-financial associations or interests (personal, professional, political, institutional, religious or other) that a reasonable reader would want to know about in relation to the submitted work. This pertains to all the authors of the piece, their spouses or partners. 
 Yes
 No
 More information *
 Please enter details of the conflict of interest or select 'No'. 
   Please tick the box to confirm you agree to our  Terms of use . * 
 Please accept terms of use. 
   Please tick the box to confirm you agree that your name, comment and conflicts of interest (if accepted) will be visible on the website and your comment may be printed in the journal at the Editor’s discretion. * 
 Please confirm you agree that your details will be displayed. 
