                              ERASMUS UNIVERSITY ROTTERDAM
                                        Erasmus School of Economics




                The structure of overnight
                  versus intraday prices
                              Master Thesis Quantitative Finance


                                               Daan Fortuin (503339)

               Supervisor Transtrend: M. Oort                   Supervisor Transtrend: L. Hendrikx
               Supervisor University: dr. R.J. Lange              Second Assessor : dr. O. Kleen

                                                  December 24, 2022

                                                      Abstract
           After-hours trading has given investors the opportunity to trade after markets have
      closed. Returns can therefore be split into intraday and overnight returns. Overnight re-
      turns outperform intraday returns when sorting on upside close-to-close volatility, which is
      a proxy for retail investor attention. A possible explanation would be that retail investors
      buy around the open, drive up opening prices, which causes higher overnight returns and
      lower intraday returns. This effect is robust to the exact time of open and close. To corrob-
      orate these findings I model intraday and overnight volatility using Dynamic Conditional
      Score - EGARCH (DCS-EGARCH) models. The coupled-component DCS-EGARCH uses
      a sequential estimation procedure of kernel technology and maximum likelihood. The two-
      component DCS-EGARCH uses a simultaneous estimation procedure depending on only a
      filter and a quadratic spline. Although the methodology of these models differ, they both
      lead to the conclusion that intraday and overnight volatility differ significantly, in addition
      to a relative importance increase of overnight volatility. All things considered, intraday and
      overnight returns have different dynamics and should be modelled accordingly.




The content of this thesis is the sole responsibility of the author and does not reflect the view of the supervisor, second
                             assessor, Erasmus School of Economics or Erasmus University.
Contents
1 Introduction                                                                              3

2 Literature Review                                                                         6

3 Data                                                                                     10
  3.1   Variable Assembly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
  3.2   Markets and sample periods . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
        3.2.1   ETFs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
        3.2.2   Dow Jones Industrial Average . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
        3.2.3   Nasdaq 100 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
        3.2.4   S&P500 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
  3.3   Robustness tests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19

4 Methodology                                                                              22
  4.1   HAR-UV-SC       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
  4.2   Coupled component DCS-EGARCH . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
  4.3   Two-component DCS-EGARCH . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
        4.3.1   Quadratic Spline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
  4.4   Adjusted model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
  4.5   Constancy of ratio test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
  4.6   Evaluation measures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29

5 Results                                                                                  31
  5.1   HAR-UV-SC       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
        5.1.1   ICSS algorithm . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
        5.1.2   In-sample analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
        5.1.3   Out-of-sample analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
  5.2   DCS-EGARCH . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
        5.2.1   Standard base specification    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
        5.2.2   Adjusted base specification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
        5.2.3   Coupled component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
        5.2.4   two-component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
        5.2.5   Case study: Amgen and Microsoft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
                                        1
6 Conclusion                                                                            48

Bibliography                                                                            49

Appendix A Data composition                                                             52
  A.1 S&P500 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
  A.2 Institutional Ownership . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
  A.3 Dow 30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
  A.4 Nasdaq 100 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
  A.5 Robustness test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61

Appendix B Preliminary Results                                                          62
  B.1 ETFs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
  B.2 Dow Jones Industrial Average . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
  B.3 Nasdaq 102 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67

Appendix C Additional tables and figures                                                74

Appendix D Proofs                                                                       89




                                            2
1        Introduction
The structure of overnight versus intraday prices of stocks and their return generating
process has been an extensively researched topic in finance, since the opportunity to trade
during market-closure (Berkman et al. (2012), Cooper et al. (2008), Kelly and Clark
(2011)). Many papers find outperformance of overnight returns, from close-to-open, in
comparison to intraday returns, from open-to-close, during the period around the dot-
com bubble, where overnight trading, also called after-hours trading, can be split in post-
market and pre-market trading. The predominant explanations for this phenomenon are
retail investor attention (Berkman et al., 2012) and the liquidity premium (Cooper et al.,
2008). Greater effects were found when sorting on higher close-to-close volatility, lower
institutional ownership, difficulty to value and positive investor sentiment.
    If the effect observed in the literature is persistent, it should be robust to the exact start
and end of intraday trading. Otherwise the observed discrepancy could be wholly based
on the particular dynamics around the open and close. Estimation assumptions are of
great importance to the observed results, as the open and close are volatile moments. The
exact endpoints used for comparison between overnight and intraday returns influences
this estimation, especially considering the larger bid-ask spreads during market open and
close.
    This research field is currently relevant with respect to the shift in balance between
retail investors and institutional investors. In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, ‘meme
stocks’ such as GameStop and AMC Entertainment proved to be a battleground between
retail investors and several large institutional investors. The literature suggests a possible
strange effect of this competition between retail and institutional investors. Aggregate
stock returns appear to be higher during overnight trading hours than intraday trading
hours. This could be due to retail investors pushing up prices during the open because they
can, in general, not trade overnight. Investors could make use of these characteristics, if
these results would appear significantly in the data, and consequently adjust their trading
strategies. A strategy including going long in the night and short in the day could be
profitable in such a situation.
    Most papers pertaining to this effect date back from the period before the global
financial crisis. I therefore review this problem using a more recent data set and investigate
if overnight returns still outperform intraday returns and if this phenomenon is robust
                                                3
to the exact starting or ending time of the trading day. Furthermore, I look into the
effects of sorting stocks in certain portfolios based on close-to-close upside volatility and
institutional ownership. The sorting process needs an estimate of this upside volatility
and I therefore forecast this using a relatively simple heterogeneous autoregressive (HAR)
model incorporating structural changes, proposed by Gong and Lin (2021).
   I show that the difference between overnight and intraday returns is significantly differ-
ent from zero for the period 2016 to 2022 when using upside volatility sorting updated on
a daily basis. The pandemic plays an important role in this phenomenon. There seems to
be a change in retail investor behaviour in the last four to five years, which has accelerated
since the COVID-19 pandemic. Retail investors appear to follow momentum strategies,
assessed by sorting on close-to-close upside volatility. Retail investors, mostly only able
to trade during market hours, concentrate their purchases during the open, resulting in
high opening prices and higher overnight returns. This ‘overnight anomaly’ is most clearly
observed in S&P 500 stocks, but also holds for Nasdaq 100 stocks and Dow 30 stocks.
This phenomenon is robust to the exact start and end of the trading day and the anomaly
is therefore not caused by the dynamics and more volatile movements around open and
close. This robustness test uses the median of value weighted average minute prices for
an 30 minute interval. Furthermore, institutional ownership has a negative effect on this
occurred effect, which is motivated in the literature by Berkman et al. (2012).
   This phenomenon in the data supports the notion of modeling overnight and intra-
day returns and their volatilities separately. Linton and Wu (2020) propose a semi-
parametric coupled component Dynamic Conditional Score - Exponential GARCH model
(coupled component DCS-EGARCH model). This model enables the overnight and in-
traday volatilities to have different dynamic properties, which are clearly observed in the
data including between these volatilities. I retrieve short and long run volatility series,
for both overnight and intraday, to make conclusions about their behaviour, especially
before, during and after the COVID-crash in March 2020. Linton and Wu (2020) use a
dependence structure based on overnight versus intraday dynamics until 2017. As dynam-
ics have changed, based on the data analysis, Iintroduce an adjusted base specification
of the coupled component DCS-EGARCH model using a different dependence structure.
Although this specification improves the model, it does not have an influence on the short
and long run components. Although no increase of efficiency is found after changing the

                                              4
base specification, it proves the robustness of the model to the used base specification.
   Moreover, I use the methodology of Harvey and Lange (2018) to come up with a
different estimation technique for the long run volatilities. Instead of the coupled com-
ponent model, where I optimize the short and long run components sequentially, I only
use a filter in the so-called two-component DSC-EGARCH to estimate the short and long
run component simultaneously. I focus on 22 stocks in the Dow 30, because graphically
presenting 456 plots for each model is not feasible. This data set is similar to Linton and
Wu (2020). I extend the sample period from (1993-2017) to (1993-2022). The overnight
anomaly is also expressively present in this sample of stocks and therefore sufficient and
convenient for my analysis.
   The DCS-EGARCH model proves to be robust to the used methodology. The results
from the coupled component and two-component model correspond to a great extent. The
long run component, total volatility and ratio (overnight to intraday) of total volatility
behave similar across models and the same conclusions can be drawn from them. These
conclusions include the relative importance increase from overnight volatilities to intraday
volatilities, which is caused by a decrease of intraday volatility, rather than an increase
of relative overnight volatility (on average). This effect is found for both the short run
and long run processes. Furthermore, intraday and overnight volatility peaks were the
same during the dot-com bubble and the financial crisis, but overnight volatility was
significantly higher than intraday volatility during the COVID-19 crash. Nevertheless,
overnight volatility remains smaller in absolute sense than intraday volatility over the
entire sample period, a phenomenon already shown in the literature. In addition to these
results, I find some short run dynamics. Overnight volatility is more leptokurtic. This
increased during the the last two years, namely due to overnight crashes. On the other
hand, intraday returns have even become more Gaussian during the last two years, which
is also supported by the data analysis of the difference in return during the pandemic. The
models also imply higher volatility after negative returns in general. Moreover, intraday
returns are negatively affected by previous night and day returns, and overnight returns
have a negative effect on subsequent negative returns.
   All in all, I find a significant difference in return between overnight and intraday re-
turns when sorting on upside volatility for the period 2016 to 2022. This effect is most
striking since the COVID-19 pandemic. This upside volatility can already be forecast with

                                             5
simple methods, such as a HAR model with structural changes. The difference in dynam-
ics between intraday and overnight prices is, next to the return generating process, found
in the volatility process. I extend the semi-parametric coupled component DCS-EGARCH
model of Linton and Wu (2020) by using additional data and changing the base specifi-
cation. Furthermore, I develop a new model called the two-component DCS-EGARCH,
which uses a simultaneous optimization, instead of a sequential optimization, which is
more time-efficient. The two-component model uses the methodology from Harvey and
Lange (2018), is a parametric model and uses quadratic splines instead of kernel technol-
ogy. Modelling intraday and overnight volatility is proven to be model-robust, as both
models indicate the same results, namely a significant difference between intraday and
overnight volatility, including a relative importance increase of overnight volatility. All
results lead to the conclusion that intraday and overnight returns have different dynamics
and should be modelled accordingly.
    The remainder of this paper is structured as follows. Section 2 relates this paper to the
existing literature. Section 3 informs about the data used and already gives some insights
into the structure of overnight versus intraday returns. Section 4 describes the models
from the literature, the new adjusted models and the evaluation measures. Next, we report
the results of the described methodology in Section 5. Lastly, Section 6 summarizes the
main results and provides ideas for further research.



2     Literature Review
After-hours trading and overnight returns are an interesting topic in the literature since
the introduction of electronic communication networks (ECN) in 1969. ECNs accommo-
date investors to trade when financial markets are closed and to participate in so-called
after-hours trading. After-hours trading became even more widespread in 1999, when
ECNs became more widely available to retail investors. Hong and Wang (2000) gives a
complete overview of the difference between overnight and intraday returns before after-
hours trading was more widely available. They find higher activity around the open and
close in combination with higher volatility during these periods of market closure and
opening. Additionally, they show empirically that intraday returns are higher and more
volatile than overnight returns.

                                              6
   The return-generating process has according to some papers changed since after-hours
trading became more accessible to retail investors. Three papers, namely Berkman et al.
(2012), Cooper et al. (2008) and Kelly and Clark (2011), find a significant difference be-
tween overnight and intraday returns for the period 1993 to 2008 using different methods.
They claim that intraday returns are negative or zero, while overnight returns are signif-
icantly positive. All three papers list different reasons for this phenomenon, use different
data and differ in focus.
   Berkman et al. (2012) use a sample of the 3000 largest US stocks for the period
1996-2008 and an abridged sample of NASDAQ stocks for the period 1997-2001 including
detailed information on the identity of market participants for each trade. They calculate
log returns using quote midpoints and construct various variables to explain the difference
in night versus day returns. These variables include two proxies for retail attention,
three measures of retail buying at the open, two proxies for short sale constraints and
three measures of transaction costs. Furthermore, they look at hard-to-value stocks and
sentiment. Berkman et al. (2012) conclude that the difference between the overnight and
intraday returns is caused by high opening prices. These high prices are caused by retail
investor attention. Moreover, the effect is more prominently present for hard-to-value
stocks, stocks with less institutional ownership and stocks with more sentiment.
   Cooper et al. (2008) look at S&P 500 stocks, 14 exchange-traded funds (ETFs), 44
firms in the Amex Interactive Week Internet Index and S&P 500 E-mini futures. They
conclude that the US equity premium is solely due to overnight returns for the period 1993-
2006. They split the intraday returns in three periods and conclude that day reversals
after positive overnight returns are due to high opening prices which decline in the first
hour of trading. They perform robustness tests for calendar effects, growth of ECNs
and decimalization and try to explain the high difference in night versus day returns
by earnings announcements, liquidity effects and price pressure effects. Cooper et al.
(2008) refer to further research for a full explanation of the night versus day return,
as they can only explain a small portion of this effect by the illiquidity premium as
suggested by Longstaff (1995), and to a smaller amount to risk, earnings surprises, return
autocorrelation, decimalization and the growth of ECNs.
   Thirdly, Kelly and Clark (2011) consider ETFs and differ from the previous two papers
by using risk-adjusted excess returns instead of raw returns. They also compute volume

                                             7
weighted average prices in comparison with the two other papers who use first/last traded
prices. Their focus is on long-short trading strategies by making use of the difference in
the night versus day returns for the period 1995-2006. One of five ETFs is profitable by
exploiting this difference using the long-short strategy. Significance of this difference is
determined by the Sharpe ratio test of Opdyke (2007), which has since been improved by
Ledoit and Wolf (2008).
   A fourth paper, Lachance (2015), finds the same results for on average almost six
thousand stocks for the period 1995-2014. She claims that one out of five stocks has a
significantly positive difference between night and day returns, which pays two times the
market return for a volatility which is three times as small. These stocks also have an
average negative intraday return.
   Where the previous four papers look specifically to the difference in return in the
US, other papers have looked at overnight volatility, different countries, other relations,
trading strategies, earnings announcements, intraday patterns and options. French and
Roll (1986) were among the first to look at overnight volatility and conclude that it was
lower than intraday volatility because of less public information, fewer informed investors
and fewer pricing errors. More recently, Linton and Wu (2020) show that the ratio of
overnight to intraday volatility has increased in the last two decades for Dow Jones stocks
and large stocks in the CRSP database. Linton and Wu (2020) use a coupled component
model, which enables differentiation of dynamics of overnight and intraday volatility. This
model is a dynamic conditional score model, for which Harvey (2013) laid the foundation.
They use a two step estimation procedure to optimize both long and short run components.
In addition to using this model, I adapt it with a part of the methodology from Harvey
and Lange (2018), which allows me to do a one step estimation. They modify the GARCH
filter to a two-component GARCH filter using a parameter restriction to create a long and
short run component. Where Linton and Wu (2020) focus on proposing their model and
applying it to past data, Harvey and Lange (2018) do not differentiate between overnight
and intraday returns and concentrates on forecasting ability.
   Cai and Qiu (2009) find significantly higher overnight returns compared to daily re-
turns in 23 countries. They test the assertion of Miller (1977), which states that stocks
are overpriced due to divergence of opinions by the absence of short selling. Divergence
of opinions happens overnight, causes high opening prices and returns therefore are sig-

                                             8
nificantly higher overnight. Aretz and Bartram (2015) finds quite the opposite, when
conducting an analysis on 48,413 stock from 35 countries for the period 1993-2012. They
find higher day returns than night returns, both having a similar volatility. Hendershott
et al. (2020) studies the relation between stock prices and beta for both night and intraday
returns. They find that overnight returns are positively related to beta and vice versa
for intraday returns. This holds for beta-sorted portfolios, industry portfolios, book-to-
market portfolios, individual US stocks and international stocks. Branch and Ma (2006)
discover a negative correlation between overnight returns and intraday returns the follow-
ing day. Branch and Ma (2012) expands this paper and gives a more detailed elaboration
on the negative correlation. Lou et al. (2019) looks at multiple trading strategies for which
they claim that returns are earned entirely overnight or earned entirely intraday. They
link this behaviour to investor heterogeneity and claim that short-term investors could
profit from their discovery due to the large economic magnitudes of their results, but
that also long-term investors could profit by timing their orders either near the open or
during the close. Basdekidou et al. (2017) also look at different strategies and anomalies,
such as the overnight return temporal market anomaly. They also conclude that returns
are earned entirely overnight or entirely intraday. Jiang et al. (2012) look at earnings
announcements for S&P500 stocks from 2004-2008 released during after-hours and finds
that trading, price change and price discovery are heightened during and just after the
releases. The timing of earnings announcements is concentrated during market closure, as
firms prefer to use informed traders to start the price discovery, where informed traders
refer to traders with superior knowledge due to either access to private information or
skillful processing of public information. Wood et al. (1985) split their analysis in four
parts namely night, day, open and close. They find unusually high returns and volatitlities
during open and close, while day returns, with exclusion from open and close, are discov-
ered to behave normally. Muravyev and Ni (2020) investigate S&P500 index options and
find positive day returns and negative night returns. This is robust across all maturities
and moneyness classes, and also across equity options.
   All in all, there is a lot of research on this topic. Many papers find the same dynamics,
but give different causes. This also depends on the markets and data samples used.
However, most papers are outdated and do not cover the period since the COVID-crash.
I will therefore use methods from several studies using more recent data and assess the

                                             9
several causes.



3     Data
This section evaluates the data, gives some descriptive statistics and already analyzes
the data with some more advanced methods. Firstly, it covers the used variables, then
describes all sample periods of the securities and their respective markets and finally
gives evidence of larger overnight returns in comparison with day returns when sorting
on particular variables.


3.1     Variable Assembly

The data consists of daily returns and price patterns around open and close. I decompose
the daily returns into intraday and overnight returns. Log returns are used for convenience
and do not alter the results. The intraday return is defined as the return from open to
close and the overnight return as the return form close to open. The exact definition of
open and close will be discussed hereafter. Log returns are defined as:

                  Close-to-Open return = CTOt = log(Opent /Closet−1 )

                  Open-to-Close return = OTCt = log(Closet /Opent )
                                                                                          (1)
                  Close-to-Close return = CTCt = log(Closet /Closet−1 )

                  Open-to-Open return = OTOt = log(Opent /Opent−1 ).

    One thing is important to mention with regard to calculation. The night return (CTOt )
is followed by the intraday return (OTCt ), when calculating the difference between both
series. This pattern is needed for calculation but has for a considerable time horizon, no
implications on the results. Figure 1 shows a clarifying timeline. I analyse the difference as
it would have direct implications on the (weak) efficient market hypothesis. The difference
is defined as:

    Difference in return = Overnight return − day return = DIFFt = CTOt − OTCt .          (2)

    Descriptive statistics are evaluated by taking standard t-tests on the time series av-
erage of the difference (DIFFt ). This is straightforward when evaluating an index, ETF
(exchange traded fund) or single stock. However, my analysis is mainly on multiple stocks.
                                             10
Therefore, I take the cross-sectional mean of all assets in the sample and thus calculating
the cross-sectional mean for each point in time. This method is used in Berkman et al.
(2012) to adjust for cross-sectional correlation as proposed in Bernard (1987). The mean
and variance of the computed time-series is subsequently used for the corresponding t-
tests. Newey-West standard errors (Newey and West, 1987) correct for serial correlation
in the created time-series of cross-sectional means.
   Cooper et al. (2008), Kelly and Clark (2011) and Berkman et al. (2012) report sig-
nificance tests using tables. This forces them to look at only one period of time, as they
can only report those estimates. I differ in visualisation of the results by using a rolling
window and displaying the entire time series of DIFFt . This increases interpretability and
shows time variation. Next to that, it informs readers more extensively, as it gives far
more details, as for a time-series of four years, the reader gets one thousands times more
observations.
   Inspired by Berkman et al. (2012), I use portfolio sorts based on volatility and insti-
tutional ownership. Berkman et al. (2012) link higher overnight returns to attention of
retail investors. A proxy for the presence of retail investors is the squared close-to-close
return of the previous day. The squared return is a rough measure for the volatility. We
refer to this proxy as VOLt−1 :

                 VOLt−1 = Close-to-close volatility yesterday = CTC2t−1 ,                 (3)

   Berkman et al. (2012) use CTC2t−1 . However, from the analysis I discover that total
close-to-close volatility does not work as a good proxy in recent times, as sorting on this
metric does not give a significant difference in overnight minus intraday return. However,
upside close-to-close volatility is a good proxy and gives the same results for this era,
as Berkman et al. (2012) report for the dot-com bubble period. Therefore, I introduce
VOL+
   t−1 :


        VOL+                                                                   2
           t−1 = Upside close-to-close volatility yesterday = (max{CTCt−1 , 0}) ,         (4)

   where it is important to mention that sorting on this variable gives the same results as
sorting on close-to-close return directly. However, I choose to define it as upside volatility
for the purpose of the used forecasting procedure and the resemblance with the available
literature.

                                             11
    Figure 1 gives a clear timeline of the used variables. It is important to realize that the
VOL+
   t−1 is only known at CLOSEt−1 . When sorting on this variable with the purpose of

following a related trading strategy at time point CLOSEt−1 , the need to forecast VOL+
                                                                                      t−1

arises. The model used for the forecast will be discussed in the next section.
    Another sorting variable used by Berkman et al. (2012) is Institutional Ownership
(IOt ):

                                            shares outstanding hold by institutions
          IOt = Institutional Ownership =                                                 (5)
                                                    divided by total shares

    Data on institutional ownership comes from the the WRDS (Wharton Research Data
Services) Thomson Reuters Institutional Holdings (13F) Database. Data is available on
450 S&P500 stocks, as we lose six stocks due to different use of tickers, absence of differ-
entiation between series of the same stock, mergers and acquisitions during the research
or unavailability. I lose another 130 stocks due to incoherent data in the WRDS database.
Institutional Ownership exceeds 100% for these stocks, which is by definition impossible.
Details on the stocks used can be found in Appendix A. Institutional Ownership is a
quarterly reported variable.

                         Figure 1: Timeline returns and volatility




3.2       Markets and sample periods

This subsection covers the details of the markets and sample periods. The main sample I
use consists of constituents of the S&P500 index, but some preliminary research consists
of data from ETFs, the 30 stocks of the Dow Jones Industrial Average index and stocks
tracking the NASDAQ 100 index.



                                             12
3.2.1   ETFs

Kelly and Clark (2011) is one of few papers, which laid the foundation for the ‘overnight
anomaly’. They provide evidence of this anomaly using data on five ETFs, namely DIA,
IWM, MDY, QQQ and SPY, tracking respectively the Dow 30, the Russell 2000, the S&P
400 Midcap, the Nasdaq 100 and the S&P 500. DIA, QQQ and SPY cover stocks with
big market capitalization, MDY with medium market capitalization and IWM with small
market capitalization. Figure 19 and Figure 20 in Appendix B show the time series of the
DIFFt for each ETF. Table 5 reports the sample periods for each ETF. A rolling window
of eight years is used to be able to compare directly to the results of Kelly and Clark
(2011). Confidence intervals are based on Newey-West (Newey and West, 1987) standard
errors for a 5% level. The difference in return (DIFFt ) is indeed significant for four out
of five ETFs for the period considered by Kelly and Clark (2011). The fifth is almost
significant, but the difference in result could be due to different estimation methods. This
period is actually approximately the first data point of each time series in the figures, as it
corresponds to the mean of that date and the eight years before. The anomaly disappears
for all ETFs quite rapidly after this period. Although a (small) increase in DIFFt is found
for all ETFs in the last eight to ten years, only IWM has a significant difference between
overnight and intraday returns recently.


3.2.2   Dow Jones Industrial Average

After finding no expressive anomaly in the ETFs, I first consider a small sample of stocks,
namely the Dow Jones Industrial Average, or Dow 30 for short. I find no direct evidence in
the descriptive statistics of this sample, thus I sort stocks on overnight return to examine
heterogeneity of overnight versus intraday prices. The overnight return for each stock
during the last five years determined the corresponding tercile, low, medium or high,
where a tercile contains one third of the stocks of a portfolio. The sample consists of 26
stocks (as four stocks had a horizon of less than 30 years), meaning six or seven stocks per
tercile. A rolling window of twelve years is used and significance is determined as before.
Figure 21 shows that stocks are heterogeneous in DIFFt for the Dow 30. It is important
to note that these results come by definition of the sorting and are purely used to show
for heterogeneity amongst stocks.
   Figure 22 shows the overnight returns minus the intraday returns when sorted on
                                              13
close-to-close upside volatility using a rolling window of five years. A clear pattern arises
since April 2021, which accounts for the period 2017 to 2022, where a high VOL+
                                                                              t−1 gives

a higher return on day t, on average. This difference is significantly different from zero,
rejecting the null hypothesis of equal return. Sorting on upside close-to-close volatility
and proceeding in a long night short day strategy is thus profitable, without considering
transaction costs. For this strategy, positions need to be balanced twice a day, which
includes a lot of transaction costs. I will elaborate on this in the next section.


3.2.3   Nasdaq 100

The third sample includes the 123 largest stocks from the Nasdaq Exchange where large
refers to market capitalization. I exclude 21 firms who have less than 2461 data points,
which is almost 10 years of data as one year refers to 252 trading days. The initial sample
of 123 stocks ends up to have 102 stocks after data cleaning, which is close to 100 and
divisible by three. The last condition is important for the sorting process. More details
about the used stocks can be found in Appendix A. The 102 stocks are divided in terciles
of 34 stocks based on yesterdays upside close-to-close volatility (VOL+
                                                                      t−1 ). This approach

is inspired by Berkman et al. (2012). By creating this variable I lose 2 observations per
stock. Figure 23 in Appendix B shows the difference in return (overnight - intraday
return) per tercile (high, medium and low VOL+
                                             t−1 respectively) for a rolling window of

five years. Confidence bounds are calculated by computing standard errors by taking
cross-sectional means and using Newey-West standard errors of the time-series of means.
The high tercile has a significant difference in return, or in other words, the overnight
return is significantly larger than the intraday return. The medium and low tercile are
both insignificant. Berkman et al. (2012) claims that this is the result of retail investors
who buy at the open and thus raise opening prices. VOL+
                                                      t−1 is used as a proxy for

retail attention. This phenomenon, outperformance of overnight returns, observed by
several papers during the period around the dot-com bubble, has since the COVID-19
crisis risen to significant values, at least for large cap Nasdaq and Dow 30 stocks, when
sorting on a proxy for retail attention. This could be due to a change in retail investor
behaviour since the pandemic, as during the dot-com bubble, which is contrary to the
(weak) Efficient Market Hypothesis. Another interesting feature is the steep decline in
DIFFt−1 . This means that, in comparison to the period before and after, during the first

                                             14
weeks of the COVID-19 pandemic night returns where smaller. Better said, crashes were
more concentrated in the overnight periods than in the intraday periods. Considering this,
the effect, as I use a rolling window of five years, is even larger when not considering the
first few weeks or months of the pandemic. The difference in return yields approximately
0.07% per day, when using a trading strategy of going long in the night and short in the
day without transaction costs, which means approximately 19% per year.
   Figure 24 and Figure 25 show what happens when sorting in sextiles, meaning six
equal groups of 17 stocks, instead of terciles. In the highest sixtile (high), the phenoma is
far more significant and larger than before. The difference in return yields approximately
0.1% per day, when using a trading strategy of going long in the night and short in the
day without transaction costs, which means approximately 29% per year (for the last
five years). To compare, the annual return of the S&P500 was 8.9% the last five years
and 12.5% the last ten years. All other sextiles are insignicant from zero and decrease
per sextile, where high2 comes between high and medium. The lowest sextile however is
increasing with respect to the sextile above (low). Again, a rolling window of five years
is used and the begin of the pandemic is visible in each figure.
   Trading costs should be taken into account when considering trading strategies. Trad-
ing costs are often divided in transaction costs and the bid-ask spread. The average
transaction cost per stock is approximately 0.01% per trade. As this strategy involves
selling at the open and buying at the close, 0.02% of the profit goes to the transaction
cost. The bid-ask spread is an issue when dealing with quote data. However, since I use
trade data, the bid-ask spread is already part of the price. I am thus left with a (large)
0.08% (0.10%-0.02%) profit per day. The question remains in which magnitude this strat-
egy can be implemented. The 0.08% profit is realistic when trading one stock of each
firm a day. Institutional investors are not interested in such quantities. The traded prices
include the bid-ask spread at that moment for that particular stocks. When institutional
investors want to trade in large volumes, the bid-ask spread could become larger as of the
current supply and demand. This will diminish the profit rapidly. The trading strategy
is thus profitable when trading small volumes, but will soon become unprofitable when
increasing the volumes.
   Finally, Figure 26 and Figure 27 show respectively the OTCt−1 and CTOt−1 . The day
returns, OTCt−1 , are smallest for the high VOL+                              +
                                               t−1 and highest for the low VOLt−1 , but


                                             15
all insignificant from zero. The night returns, CTOt−1 , are (for the last five years, so May
2017 to May 2022) significantly different from zero for the high and low tercile, and almost
significant for the medium tercile. The small day returns for the high tercile thus cause
the DIFFt−1 to be largest for the high tercile. Another interesting feature is the influence
of the COVID-19 crisis on returns. Day returns are not affected at all by this crisis,
while night returns are affected negatively. To conclude, the negative returns during the
first few weeks of the corona pandemic and the dropping stock prices are located in the
overnight returns.


3.2.4   S&P500

The next sample consists of constituents of the S&P500 as of April 4 2022. This sample
includes 505 stocks from a wide variety of industries and sectors. I lose 49 stocks, which
have an initial public offering (IPO) in the last ten years, to ensure a minimum of ten
years data for each stock. The results are derived from the remaining 456 stocks. The
used stocks are clearly described in Appendix A. The analysis is the same as before.
Using a rolling window of five years, I compute the time series of cross-sectional means
and use Newey-West standard errors for significance tests. Figure 2 shows the descriptive
statistics of the S&P500 stocks.

    Figure 2: Difference in return descriptive statistics for a five year rolling window




   Whereas the difference in overnight versus intraday returns are not significantly dif-
ferent for the period 2013 to 2020, the steep increase in difference since the COVID-19
pandemic almost reaches significance for approximately the last five years, after a steep
increase since March 2020. This increase is remarkable in comparison to the full sam-
                                         16
ple period and indicates a change in overnight versus intraday price dynamics. For the
Nasdaq sample, portfolio sorting is necessary to find a significant difference. For S&P500
stocks, the overnight anomaly is present far more pronounced for the last five to six years.
There is again a large drop at March 2020, indicating that crashes found place mainly
during market closure when the COVID-19 crisis started.
   Figure 3 displays three terciles, namely sorted per day on VOL+
                                                                 t−1 (respectively high,

medium and low). There is a clear pattern. High upside close-to-close volatility yesterday
means a relatively high overnight and lower intraday return today due to higher opening
prices forced by higher retail investor attention. High VOL+
                                                           t−1 means a significant out-

performance of overnight returns. The medium tercile is almost significant and lower in
absolute value. The low tercile is even lower and more insignificant.
   Once more, I use portfolio sorts on upside volatility to proxy for attention of retail
investors. As mentioned before, I use upside close-to-close volatility, whereas Berkman
et al. (2012) uses total close-to-close volatility. Using different proxies, we find the same
results. This could be explained as a shift in behaviour of retail investors. Reacting to
total volatility of a certain stock, during the dot-com period, could be explained by a
dichotomy of retail investors. One part of retail investors reacts to upside volatility, due
to for example the momentum argument, and the other part reacts to downside volatility,
due to for example the argument which states a cheaper entry point. The previous five to
six years, there is only a reaction to upside volatility. This could be explained by a shift
in behaviour of retail investors to momentum strategies.
   Sorting on VOL+
                 t−1 is done daily. IO data is only available quarterly and it would

also not change the sorting drastically if available daily. Therefore it is expected that
these sorts do not influence the DIFFt−1 that much. However, it is still an interesting
sort, as IO is by definition negatively correlated with retail investing. Figure 4 gives the
three sorts of IO and plots the difference in return time-series. The green line is the low
IO sort and is thus expected to have a high amount of retail investors, which, by our
hypothesis, should have a bigger DIFFt−1 . This behaviour is seen after the COVID-19
pandemic. The direct opposite happened before the pandemic. This hints to a shift in
behaviour of retail investors after the pandemic. This is the same conclusion as from the
three sorted portfolio on upside volatility. The low IO sort is always beneath the green
time-series after March 2020 and always above before March 2020. This is in line with our

                                             17
Figure 3: Difference in return for 3 sorts on different values of upside close-to-close volatil-
ity yesterday for a five year rolling window




                                               18
hypothesis. Appendix B includes the same plot with confidence bounds, namely Figure
28. The low and medium sort are significantly different from zero for the last five years,
as I use a rolling window of five years. Nevertheless, the sorts do not differ substantially
and are close to the descriptive statistics. Sorting on upside volatility will thus be more
profitable. It should be noted that I use a slightly different set of stocks.

Figure 4: Difference in return sorted on institutional ownership for a five year rolling
window




3.3    Robustness tests

Previous analysis uses first and last trade data for respectively the open and close. Open
and close are volatile moments and trading at exactly the open or close is near impossible.
Therefore I perform a robustness test to ensure that the difference in returns is not totally
based on the dynamics around open and close. Transtrend provides minute data on
approximately 120 stocks of the S&P500. Instead of one open price (first trade) and
one close price (last trade), I use the minute data to create four prices, namely a pre-
open price, post-open price, pre-close price and post-close price. I compute the Volume
Weighted Average Price (VWAP) of each minute. Kelly and Clark (2011) take the VWAP
of the first five minutes to compute the open and close prices. This method is not robust
to the often much higher volumes at exactly the open or close. The VWAP of the first
                                         19
five minutes will therefore be very close to the first traded price. To tackle this problem,
I calculate the VWAP per minute for the 30 minutes before and after the open and close.
This way I get four vectors of 30 values each. To compute the four new prices I take
the median of each vector. Extreme observations are filtered out in this way and I get a
fair price that is possible to trade for. I do exactly the same analysis again calculating
the overnight return between the post-close and pre-open price. The intraday return is
calculated between the post-open and pre-close price. US exchanges open at 09.30 AM
and close at 04.00 PM. So exact definitions are:

   PRE-OPENt = Median of the VWAMPm of minutes 09.00 AM - 9.30 AM on day t

 POST-OPENt = Median of the VWAMPm of minutes 09.30 AM - 10.00 AM on day t

  PRE-CLOSEt = Median of the VWAMPm of minutes 03.30 PM - 04.00 PM on day t

POST-CLOSEt = Median of the VWAMPm of minutes 04.00 PM - 04.30 PM on day t

   where VWAMPm is the Volume Weighted Average Minute Price in minute m.

   Every stock is traded with enough volume during the day. However, before opening
and after closure, data is scarce. After sorting the 120 stocks on available minute data, I
use two samples of respectively ten and twenty stocks. For the ten-stock sample, 60% of
the data is available if I only use days for which all ten stock have data. This improves
to 79% when using all days for which at least eight of ten stocks have data. Having
data means having at least one minute of data in all four intervals. For the twenty-stock
portfolio, only 35% of the trading days is available when using all stocks. This improves
to a decent percentage of 76 when using all days for which at least 16/20 stocks have
data. I perform the analysis for the 10 out of 10 (64%), 8 out of 10 (79%) and 16 out of
20 (76%) stock samples.
   Figure 5, Figure 6 and Figure 7 give the three samples for the time period January
2013 to May 2022 for a rolling window of four years and give the DIFFt when using the
VWAP method and the first/last traded price method. The rolling window is smaller for
the simple reason that less data is available.




                                            20
Figure 5: Difference in return using VWAP and first/last traded price for a four year
rolling window. Using data on ten stocks. Only days with data on all ten stocks




Figure 6: Difference in return using VWAP and first/last traded price for a four year
rolling window. Using data on ten stocks. Only days with data on at least eight stocks




                                          21
Figure 7: Difference in return using VWAP and first/last traded price for a four year
rolling window. Using data on twenty stocks. Only days with data on at least sixteen
stocks




    For all three figures it is important to note that significance of the results does not
change, at the minimum for the 5% level. Using VWAP instead of first/last trade does
thus not change the results. Dynamics around opening and closure do thus not account for
the overnight anomaly. It could be argued that these sample are too small, but the reality
teaches us that data during market closure is scarce. The VWAP uses only trade data
and is thus based on realized trades. Of course, quote data could be used to determine
pre-open or post-close prices, but the question arises how useful quotes are when not
traded upon.



4     Methodology

4.1      HAR-UV-SC

In the previous section, data results implied that sorting on upside close-to-close volatility
could be a profitable strategy. This upside close-to-close volatility needs to be forecasted
to use this long-short strategy in respectively the night and day. There is a wide variety
of volatility models in the literature. Nevertheless, upside/downside volatility is a less
                                             22
researched measure. One of few recent papers which do look into downside volatility is
Gong and Lin (2021). They propose a heterogeneous autoregressive model of downside
volatility (HAR-DV) and advise to use structural changes (HAR-DV-SC) when estimating
downside volatility. I use this model to convert it to an upside volatility model to estimate
the upside close-to-close volatility of S&P500 stocks.
   The model uses upside realized semivariance to proxy for upside volatility. This idea
originates from Barndorff-Nielsen et al. (2008). Our model uses daily realized upside
volatility. Daily upside volatility is defined as follows:

                                    UVD              2
                                      t = I[rt > 0] rt ,                                 (6)

with
                                              Closet
                                      rt =            − 1,                               (7)
                                             Closet−1
where I[] is an indicator function and Closet−1 is the close price at (t-1 ). The weekly and
monthly upside realized volatility are defined as follows:

                             W   UVD     D               D
                                   t + UVt−1 + · · · + UVt−4
                           UVt =                             ,                           (8)
                                                    5

and
                             M   UVD     D               D
                                   t + UVt−1 + · · · + UVt−21
                           UVt =                              .                          (9)
                                                   22
   A week consists of five trading days, while a month, on average, consists of 22 trading
days. Gong and Lin (2021) follow Corsi (2009) by stating that short-, mid-, and long-term
downside volatilities affect short-term investors, mid- and long-term downside volatilities
affect mid-term investors and that long-term downside volatilities affect long-term in-
vestors. They finally come up with the HAR-DV model, in my case the HAR-UV model,
which is defined as:

                                                 W        M
                       UVt+h = c + α1 UVD
                                        t + α2 UVt + α3 UVt + ϵt+h ,                    (10)

where UVt+h is the average upside volatility between days t and t + h and ϵt+h the error
term.
   The model gets extended by adding structural changes parameters. This extension
makes the model more efficient, as shown in Gong and Lin (2021). This is done us-
ing dummy variables for certain time periods corresponding to the structural changes.
Dummy Di,t is 1 for structural changes i. The HAR-UP-SC is defined as follows:
                                           23
                                                                    S
              UVt+h = c + α1 UVD        W        M
                                                                    X
                               t + α2 UVt + α3 UVt +                      (δi Di,t ) + ϵt+h .   (11)
                                                                    i=1

   Structural changes are determined using the Inclán-Tiao cumulative sum of squares
algorithm (ICSS algorithm), proposed in Inclan and Tiao (1994). This procedure works
as follows. They first compute the cumulative sum of squares of the first to n observations
of the return series:
                                                  n
                                                        rt2 .
                                                  X
                                           Cn =                                                 (12)
                                                  t=1

   They test for constant volatility by the following Dn statistic:

                                              Cn  n
                                      Dn =       − ,                                            (13)
                                              CT  T

with T being the total observations in the given time-series. They prove that this depends
on some F-statistics:
                                                                     !
                                (T − n)n            1 − FT −n,n
                           Dn =                                     ,                           (14)
                                   T2             n
                                                  T
                                                    + T T−n FT −n,n

with
                                           (CT − Cn )/(T − n)
                               FT −n,n =                      .                                 (15)
                                                 Cn /n
   If the max |Dn | is larger than the critical value, the corresponding n is taken as
structural change, as the null hypothesis of equal variance is rejected. This algorithm is
done repeatedly until the max |Dn | is not larger than the critical value anymore. According
                                                                q
to Inclan and Tiao (1994), under variance homogeneity,          T /2Dk behaves like a Brownian
bridge asymptotically. The 5% critical value is therefore equal to 1.358. This procedure
is done on any stock to find structural changes in the in-sample time series.


4.2    Coupled component DCS-EGARCH

To model the ratio of overnight to intraday volatility, I use the coupled component dy-
namic conditional score exponential generalized autoregressive conditional heteroskedastic
model, proposed by Linton and Wu (2020). In the following, I refer to this model as the
coupled component.
   Log returns are used in this model, defined as in equation (1). To increase inter-
pretability, CT Ot = rtN and OT Ct = rtD . Initially, I use the exact same model as Linton
and Wu (2020), which states:
                                              24
                                rtD            µD                         D
                                                                                      uD
                           !          !             !                           !            !
                     1δ                                   π11 π12        rt−1
                                                                   
                                                                                       t
                                          =             +                 N
                                                                                    +  N
                                                                                                 ,         (16)
                     01         rtN            µN         π21 π22        rt−1         ut
                                    N
with the conditional shocks uD
                             t and ut with mean zero. The error process ut has an

exponential form and depends on the short run effects λ and the long run effects σ.
Therefore the process has conditional heteroskedasticity:
                                                                  D         D
                                      uD            exp(λD
                                           !                                         !
                                       t                 t ) exp(σ (t/T )) ϵt
                           ut =                =                            N
                                                                                         .                 (17)
                                      uN
                                       t            exp(λN        N
                                                         t ) exp(σ (t/T )) ϵt

   The short run component λ evolves over time as follows:

                    λD                      D         D         N
                     t = ωD (1 − βD ) + βD λt−1 + γD mt−1 + ρD mt
                                                                                                           (18)
                             ∗                 D        ∗   N           N
                          + γD (mD
                                 t−1 + 1)sign(et−1 ) + ρD (mt + 1)sign(et ),


                  λN                      N         N         D
                   t = ωN (1 − βN ) + βN λt−1 + γN mt−1 + ρN mt
                                                                                                           (19)
                            ∗                          ∗
                         + γN (mN             N            D             D
                                t−1 + 1)sign(et−1 ) + ρN (mt−1 + 1)sign(et−1 ),


where mkt , for k ∈ {D, N }:

                                                       (1 + νk )(ekt )2
                                          mkt =                            .
                                                   νk exp(2λkt ) + (ekt )2
                     h          i
                                t
   I use ekt = exp −σ̃tk        T
                                      ukt . This provides the dynamic relation between the short
run process λ and the long run process σ. The exact definition of the innovation process
mkt is based on a dynamic conditional score approach. For more details, I refer to Linton
and Wu (2020). The parameters in the λ process have the following interpretation. ωk
is the unconditional mean of the short run volatility and βk gives the perseverance of λ.
        (∗)                                                                                          (∗)
Where γD captures the influence of intraday innovation yesterday on λD
                                                                     t , ρD captures the

effect of overnight innovations yesterday on λD
                                              t . It is important to mention that yesterday

is defined as the previous period and the notation of t and t − 1 is solely based on the
assumption of having the overnight return (rtN ) being followed by the intraday return
                                                        (∗)       (∗)
(rtD ). The same interpretation holds for γN and ρN , which measures the effect of lagged
overnight shocks and previous period intraday shocks on the short run overnight volatility
                                    ∗    ∗
today respectively. The parameters γD , γN , ρ∗D and ρ∗N allow for so-called leverage effects,
meaning that they use the sign of a direct (smoothed) innovation ekt and are not reliable
on the sign of mkt , as mkt can not be smaller than minus one.
   Let ϕ denote the parameter set as:

                              ∗
         ϕ = (ωD , βD , γD , γD , ρD , ρ∗D , νD , ωN , βN , γN , γN
                                                                  ∗
                                                                    , ρN , ρ∗N , νN )T ∈ Φ ⊂ R14           (20)
                                                    25
The long run component σtk , k ∈ {D, N }, is defined as follows, for s ∈ (0,1):
                                               T
                                                                                                         !
                                       1    1X                    α
                                k
                               σ̃ (s) = log       K(s − t/T ) ukt   .                                                     (21)
                                       α    T t=1

   K(·) is a kernel with support [−1, 1]. I use the Epanechnikov kernel as it has the
lowest mean square error of known kernels, and is therefore an often used kernel.
   For identification purposes, I re-center σ(s)k :
                                                                                  T
                                              t                    t           1X         t
                                                                                                
                                   σ̃ k               = σ̃ k               −         σ̃ k                ,                (22)
                                              T                    T           T t=1      T

where Tt ∈ (0,1) by definition , having the same domain as s.
   After estimating the coefficients of the model in equation (16) using least squares, I
can retrieve ut . Using ut , I initialize σ̃ k (s) and determine ekt , for k ∈ {D, N }:

                                                                                t
                                                                                  
                                                  ekt = exp −σ̃tk                        ukt .                            (23)
                                                                                T

   The log-likelihood function for ϕ, where θ denotes the function σ̃ k (s) for s ∈ (0, 1),
can then be written as:
                                                T 
                                             1X                              
                                lT (ϕ; θ̃) =        ltD (ϕ; θ̃) + ltN (ϕ; θ̃) ,                                           (24)
                                             T t=1

                                              (ẽkt )2
                                                                                !
                     νk + 1                                        νk + 1  1             νk
                                                                                                                        
ltk = −λkt (ϕ; θ̃) −        ln       1+              k
                                                            + ln Γ        − ln νk − ln Γ    .
                        2               νk exp(2λt (ϕ; θ̃))           2    2             2

   Γ is the gamma function and I initialize λk1 = ωk . ϕ is estimated by maximizing
λT (ϕ; θ̃) with respect to ϕ ∈ Φ and I get ϕ̃ and λ̃kt . This is done using a so-called GARCH
filter. The likelihood is optimized using this filter and a non-linear optimizer. I will refer
to this optimization as the filter optimization. I then calculate η̃tk as:

                                                  η̃tk = exp(−λ̃kt (ϕ̃; θ̃)) ukt .

   In the next step, I maximize the following log-likelihood with respect to σ̂ k (s), where
σ̂ k (s) is the optimized value of σ̃ k (s) for each value of s separately:
                               T
                                                                     (η̃ k exp(−σ̂ k (s))2
                                                          "                                                      !#
                           1                           ν̃k + 1
 LkT (σ̂ k (s); ϕ̃, s) = −                                     ln 1 + t
                                                               k
                               X
                                  K(s − t/T ) σ̂ (s) +                                                                . (25)
                            T t=1                          2                  ν̃k

   This optimization is performed with the same non-linear optimizer and I will refer to
this optimization as the sigma optimization.

                                                                       26
   I conduct both these optimizations, the filter and the sigma, repeatedly until conver-
gence. Convergence is defined as the difference in parameter values upon the previous
optimization and is, just as in Linton and Wu (2020), mathematically defined as:
                X Z h                             i2                          T              
        ∆r =              σ̂ j,[r] (u) − σ̂ j,[r−1] (u) du + ϕ̂[r] − ϕ̂[r−1]      ϕ̂[r] − ϕ̂[r−1] .   (26)
               j=D,N

   The optimization procedure stops when ∆r ≤ τ for some small value τ .


4.3    Two-component DCS-EGARCH

Another way to specify both the short and long run is proposed by Harvey and Lange
(2018). They propose to split the short run component, see equations (18) and (19), in
two parts, where now one serves as the short run component and one as the long run
component. This means that equation (18) switches, for i ∈ {1, 2}, to:

                                       λD         D      D
                                        t = ωD + λ1,t + λ2,t ,
                                                                                                      (27)

and
                                                      N ∗
               λD           D             D                    D             D
                i,t = βi,D λi,t−1 + γi,D mt−1 + ρi,D mt γi,D (mt−1 + 1)sign(et−1 )
                                                                                                      (28)
                    + ρ∗i,D (mN           N
                              t + 1)sign(et ).

Equation (19) changes, for i ∈ {1, 2}, to:

                                      λN         N      N
                                       t = ωN + λ1,t + λ2,t ,
                                                                                                      (29)

and
                                                       ∗
             λN           N           N           D          N             N
              i,t = βi,N λt−1 + γi,N mt−1 + ρi,N mt + γi,N (mt−1 + 1)sign(et−1 )
                                                                                                      (30)
                   + ρ∗i,N (mD             D
                             t−1 + 1)sign(et−1 ).

   This model is only defined for β1,k ̸=β2,k , for k ∈ {D, N }, where we define β1,k > β2,k
and thus λk1,t being the long run component.
   The estimation procedure changes as σ k is replaced by λk1,t . For that reason, equation
(23) changes to:

                                               ekt = ukt .                                            (31)

   Equation (24) remains unchanged and is optimized using the same non-linear optimizer
as before. The short and long run components are optimized using the filter and at the
same time. This makes this procedure more time-efficient than the coupled component
model, as I do not need equation (25).
                                                   27
4.3.1     Quadratic Spline

Harvey and Lange (2018) suggests to model the long run λk1,t using exogenous variables by
way of a quadratic spline. This quadratic spline, introduced by Engle and Rangel (2008),
is defined, for t = 1, . . . , T , as:
                                                     K
                                     λk1,t = π0k +         πik max{t − ti−1 , 0}2 .
                                                     X
                                                                                                               (32)
                                                     i=1

    T is split into K equally ranged intervals, where t0 = 0, t1 = T /K, t2 = 2T /K,. . . ,
tK = T . The optimal K is determined by a information criterion. Although Harvey and
Lange (2018) claim that the spline is less preferable from multiple points of view, it gives
a better visual representation of the long run component, which is more interpretable. In
addition, the long run components of both models are comparable in this way.


4.4     Adjusted model

The coupled component and the two-component model both use the same base specifi-
cation as given in equation (16). This specification allows overnight returns to depend
on lagged (overnight and intraday) returns. Intraday returns depend on lagged intraday
returns and and overnight returns with the same t. However, recent data indicates that
overnight and intraday returns can be explained by lagged upside close-to-close volatility.
For this reason, I include this variable in the base specification. As I use the squared
return for a proxy for (upside) volatility, it is in essence the same to use the max function
over zero and the lagged close-to-close return. Therefore the included variable rtCTC,+ is
defined as:

                                           rtCTC,+ = max {0, rtCTC },                                          (33)

where rtCTC = (rtD + rtN ).
    I let the overnight and intraday return depend on the new variable in equation (33)
and the remaining part of the model in equation (16) stays the same. The new base
specification therefore is:

                       rtD            µD                          D
                                                                              ξD                  uD
                   !         !             !                            !          !                   !
              1δ                                 π11 π12         rt−1
                                                            
                                                                                        CTC,+      t
                                 =             +                            + N        rt−1   +            .   (34)
              01       rtN            µN         π21 π22          N
                                                                 rt−1         ξ                    N
                                                                                                  ut



                                                            28
4.5     Constancy of ratio test

To statistically test the constancy of the ratio of long run overnight volatility to long run
intraday volatility, I use the constancy of ratio test considered by Linton and Wu (2020).
I test the following null hypothesis:

                                  H0 : exp(σ0N (s)) = ρ exp(σ0D (s)).

   The alternative hypothesis states a time varying ratio. The considered t-ratio t̂(s)
follows a standard normal distribution under the null hypothesis and is defined as:
                                         √
                                           T h(ρ̂(s) − ρ̂)
                                 t̂(s) =     q             ,
                                                ω̂(s)

with:

                                                    exp(σ̂ N (s))
                                         ρ̂(s) =                  ,
                                                    exp(σ̂ D (s))
                                              Z 1
                                                 exp(σ̂ N (s))
                                       ρ̂ =                    ds,
                                               0 exp(σ̂ D (s))

                                                                      !
                                                     ν̂N + 3 ν̂D + 3
                            ω̂(s) = ρ̂ ∥K∥22
                                         2
                                                            +        .
                                                       2ν̂N    2ν̂D

   I plot the test statistic t̂(s) for s ∈ (0, 1) and determine the significance using confidence
intervals. ∥K∥22 is defined as:
                                                    Z
                                         ∥K∥22 =        K(s)2 ds,

where I use the Epanechnikov kernel. This kernel K(s) is defined as:

                                                     3       
                                        K(s) =          1 − s2 ,
                                                     4

with s ∈ (0, 1). Therefore:

                                             9     2    1
                              Z                                      
                                        2
                                   K(s) ds =    s − s3 + s5 .
                                             16    3    5

The proof of the equation above can be found in Appendix D.


4.6     Evaluation measures

I evaluate the dynamics of the overnight and intraday volatilities considering the short
and long run components. The long run component of the coupled component is σ k (s).
                                       29
This measure is demeaned for identification purposes in each step of the algorithm. The
long run component of the two-component, λk1,t , does not have demeaning necessities.
However, to compare both components, I consider
                                                            1 T
                                 λk,demeaned = λk1,t −           λk
                                                              X
                                  1,t                                                     (35)
                                                            T t=1 1,t
throughout the whole next section, if not mentioned otherwise. Hence, I will use the
demeaned function above of λk1,t .
   Although both short and long run can be considered individually, the development
of the total volatility for both day and night is interesting as well. Therefore I take the
following equation as a measure for total volatility in the coupled component model, which
is a combination of the short and long run components:
                              s
                                    νk                   t
                                                                        
                                         exp 2λkt + 2σtk                       .          (36)
                                  νk − 2                 T
   Notice that this measure depends on νk . When νk goes to infinity, the scalar upfront
goes to one. However, when νk is close to two, this scalar becomes larger than one and
penalizes the total volatility for the leptokurtic behaviour of the error distribution.
   For the two-component model this equation changes. Harvey and Lange (2018) con-
siders exp(λk2,t ) for the short run and exp(ωk + λk1,t ) for the long run. I change the short
run to exp(ωk + λk2,t ) for comparison reasons with the other model due to demeaning.
As the estimation procedure of both models differs significantly, I take these measures to
compare the models. Notice that I did not use this in equation (35), for the simple reason
that demeaning will immediately get rid of this adjustment. Equation (36), for the total
volatility, changes for the two-component to:
                             s
                                   νk      h                     i
                                        exp 2ωk + 2λk1,t + 2λk2,t .                       (37)
                                 νk − 2
   Furthermore I consider the ratio of total volatility overnight to total volatility intraday
(for the coupled component):
                                 r                h                i
                                      νN                              t
                                     νN −2
                                           exp        2λN     N
                                                        t + 2σt       T
                                 r                h                i ,                  (38)
                                      νD                              t
                                     νD −2
                                           exp        2λD     D
                                                        t + 2σt       T

and for the two-component:
                              r               h                            i
                                   νN
                                  νN −2
                                        exp   2ωN + 2λN       N
                                                      1,t + 2λ2,t
                              r               h                            i.             (39)
                                   νD
                                  νD −2
                                        exp       2ωD + 2λD       D
                                                          1,t + 2λ2,t
                                                       30
5       Results
In this section I discuss the results, which can be divided into two parts, namely the
in-sample estimates, out-of-sample estimates and results of the HAR-UV-SC model, and
the outcomes of the coupled component and the two-component model. Although the
latter two models are of higher importance, I will begin with the HAR-UV-SC model for
the simple reason of keeping a logically ordered narrative.


5.1     HAR-UV-SC

The HAR-UV-SC model consists of the estimation of the structural change parameters
and the autoregressive parameters. The structural change estimates are determined by
the ICSS algorithm. The sets of parameters are reported and visually shown for the in-
sample analysis. As the out-of-sample analysis estimates the parameter using a rolling
window, I only discuss the outcome of the use of these estimated upside volatilities in the
sorted portfolio analysis, as before.


5.1.1    ICSS algorithm

The ICSS algorithm is performed on every stock of the S&P500. Figure 8 shows the
results for the stocks Apple (AAPL), American Tower Corporation (AMT) and Akamai
Technologies (AKAM). AMT has the least structural changes, AKAM the most and
AAPL has an average amount of structural changes. The green and red lines give three
times the standard deviation of the returns series. For normally distributed variables this
should include 99% of the observations. Return series are not normally distributed, so a
smaller percentage should be expected between those bounds, because of the heavier tail
distributions.
    Figure 8 shows that the ICSS algorithm depends heavily on the distribution of returns.
When this distribution has a higher kurtosis, meaning more large absolute returns, the
algorithm finds more structural changes. This is by definition, but can also be clearly
seen in the figure, as the shakier the time-series, the more structural changes are found.
Furthermore, the biggest outliers are found during the COVID-19 pandemic which is by
far the biggest crisis in this sample period.



                                                31
Figure 8: Structural changes found by the ICSS algorithm for respectively AAPL, AMT
and AKAM for a five year rolling window




5.1.2   In-sample analysis

In-sample estimates of the three stocks, AAPL, AMT and AKAM, are given in Table 1.
Significance levels for 0.1% are (***), 1% are (**), 5% are (*), and 10% are (·).



                                            32
Table 1: In-sample estimates for the HAR-UV-SC model for AAPL, AMT and AKAM


          AAPL           AMT           AKAM                 AAPL         AMT            AKAM

 c        0.00027***    0.00012***     0.00024***     δ12   0.00001                    -0.00009
 α1       0.07672       0.01135       -0.03199        δ13   -0.00013*                  -0.00018**
 α2     -0.15291*       0.13315       -0.06130        δ14   0.00095**                  -0.00009
 α3     -0.03769       -0.38181       -0.49393**      δ15   0.00004                    -0.00010·
 δ1     -0.00008       -0.00003*       0.00084*       δ16   -0.00016**                  0.00007
 δ2       0.00036       0.00154*       0.00014        δ17                               0.01165***
 δ3     -0.00016**      0.00012*       0.00093        δ18                               0.00004
 δ4     -0.00001                       0.00006        δ19                               0.00115
 δ5     -0.00012*                      0.00466        δ20                              -0.00001
 δ6     -0.00013*                     -0.00001        δ21                              -0.00004
 δ7       0.00001                      0.00001        δ22                               0.00215*
 δ8     -0.00013·                      0.00013        δ23                              -0.00001
 δ9     -0.00019**                     0.00417        δ24                               0.00015
 δ10    -0.00004                       0.00008        δ25                              -0.00013*
 δ11    -0.00017*                     -0.00012·


      The constant is significant for all three stocks. α2 is significant and negative for AAPL.
This means that the lagged weekly upside volatility has a negative effect on the volatility
today. The same conclusion holds for AKAM for α3 and thus the lagged monthly upside
volatility. Furthermore, structural change dummies are regularly significant for all three
stocks.


5.1.3     Out-of-sample analysis

I use the rolling fixed-window prediction method for the out-of-sample estimation. This
method is also used in Gong and Lin (2021). This method uses a rolling window of
1000 observations for each estimation and prediction. This means that for every single
forecast, the ICSS algorithm is performed, as well as the estimation of the HAR-UV-SC
parameters. Having 2658 observations, I have 1658 upside volatility forecasts. These
volatility forecasts are used to sort the stocks into terciles every day. The same procedure

                                                 33
is performed as before, where I use a rolling window of four years. This leaves us with
approximately two and a half years of output. Figure 9 shows the difference in return,
overnight vs intraday, for the three different terciles, which are sorted on high, medium
and low VOL+
           t−1 .

   Figure 9 shows the difference in returns when sorting on the estimated upside volatil-
ities by the HAR-UV-SC model. Sorting on these estimates is profitable as the difference
is significantly different from zero for the high tercile. This means a non-zero profit, when
using this strategy for the last four years using the HAR-UV-SC estimates. The medium
tercile is not significantly different from zero for a 5% level and the low tercile is even
lower. Although the estimates enable a profit, the results is by far not as pronounced as
when using realized upside volatilities. This could be due to the simplicity of the HAR-
UV-SC model, which in fact only uses autoregressive terms and structural changes. This
model could easily be extended, although this is not the aim of the paper.


5.2    DCS-EGARCH

After finding thorough evidence of an overnight anomaly and the relatively easy forecast-
ing of upside volatility with the cause of exploiting this anomaly, I use the anomaly and
the interaction of overnight and intraday returns to model the overnight and intraday
volatility separately. For this purpose, I first estimate the base specification as given in
Linton and Wu (2020). Then I try to improve this model by adding information found
in the data section. I analyse the impact of the incorporation of the new variables. Then
I estimate the coupled component DCS-EGARCH model of Linton and Wu (2020). I
extend the coupled component from Linton and Wu (2020) in two dimensions. I first add
the data from 2017-2022 to the model. Secondly, I change this model with insights from
Harvey and Lange (2018) to model the long run (volatility) in a different way. This model
will be called the two-component DCS-EGARCH.
   For this analysis I use stocks from the Dow 30, which have data available since 1993.
Eight stocks are removed from the sample due to few data (CRM, DOW, GS and V) and
incorrect/incomplete data before 2001 (BA, CAT, DIS and KO), which leads to biased
parameter estimates. The 22 stocks I use for the analysis are: AAPL, AMGN, AXP,
CSCO, CVX, HD, HON, IBM, INTC, JNJ, JPM, MCD, MMM, MRK, MSFT, NKE,
PG, TRV, UNH, VZ, WBA and WMT.
                                             34
Figure 9: Difference in return for 3 sorts on different values of upside close-to-close volatil-
ity yesterday using the HAR-UV-SC for a four year rolling window




                                              35
5.2.1   Standard base specification

I first estimate the standard base specification used by Linton and Wu (2020), as shown in
equation (16). Table 6 shows the parameters estimates for the standard base specification
for the period 4 Janaury 1993 until 3 August 2022. The values are close, but not identical,
to the estimates in Linton and Wu (2020), which is to be expected as five years of data
has been added. I generally draw the same conclusion, namely a positive δ for ten out
of twelve significant values. In combination with a negative π11 for all significant values,
which means that both overnight and intraday returns have a negative effect on subse-
quent intraday returns. π12 and π21 have, considering only significant estimates, seven
negative and five positive, and eight negative and three positive values respectively. No
unambiguous conclusion can be derived from those estimates. However, in contradiction
with Linton and Wu (2020), I find twelve negative out of twelve significant values for π22 ,
which means a negative effect of the overnight return on the subsequent overnight return.
This could be explained by the big crashes during the COVID-19 pandemic, which mostly
occurred overnight and were of relatively large magnitude, as seen in the data section.
Finally, the parameters estimates for µD and µN are positive for most stocks, 18 and 17
times respectively.


5.2.2   Adjusted base specification

The adjusted coupled component model has an adjustment on the base specification,
which can be found in equation (34). I incorporate insights from the data with this
specification, namely the overnight anomaly. As the overnight anomaly is only present
in abundance after the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, I first consider the parameter
estimates of this model with data from May 2020 to May 2022. Table 7 shows the
parameter estimates for the adjusted base specification for the period May 2020 until
May 2022. I see different dynamics for this specific period. Although δ is positive (seven
times out of seven significant estimates) and π11 is negative again (five times out of seven
significant estimates), I find a more pronounced pattern for π12 , π21 and π22 . π12 is positive
(six out seven) and π21 is negative (five out five). This means, for those particular stocks,
day returns have the same sign as night returns the day before and that day returns have
a negative effect on subsequent night returns. π22 is negative again (eight out of nine),
meaning a negative effect of the overnight return on the subsequent overnight return. The
                                              36
new parameters, ξD and ξN , follow my expectations. ξD is most of the time negative or
zero, and ξN is positive or zero. This explains the positive difference found in earlier (the
positive difference in the return due to close-to-close volatility), and the addition of these
parameters is in that sense valuable, as some parameters are significantly different from
zero.
   Table 8 in Appendix C gives the parameter estimates of the adjusted model. I find
ten positive values out of 13 significant values. π11 is also negative again among most
stocks. This is all in line with earlier results. π12 and π21 have no clear pattern, just as in
the standard model for this time period. Also π22 is negative for ten out of ten significant
stocks and zero otherwise. The interesting thing is the number of significant values among
ξD and ξN . Although not consistent in sign, more than eight and thirteen significant
estimates are found respectively. The added variables are expected to have a particular
sign in the subsample beginning in 2020, but these variables thus also have predictable
power in the entire sample. This could potentially make the upcoming volatility models
more efficient.
   To directly see the result of the potential efficiency increase, the used innovations,
namely ukt , should be analysed from both base specifications. Figure 29 and Figure 30
                                          N
show respectively the innovations uD
                                   t and ut from both models plotted against each other

to see if the changed base specification gives rise to a different set of innovations. This is
interesting as the innovations are the only input to the DCS-EGARCH models, as can be
seen in equation (17).
   The figures show that the innovations from both models are almost identical. This
could be seen as a trivial case, as both models look alike and only differ in two variables.
However, if I plot the innovations from the adjusted model against a model with only a
constant, the same pattern, innovations on the 45 degree line, evolves. I can thus conclude
that the base specification is not of big influence to the outcome of the eventual models.
Therefore I use the standard base specification in the upcoming models. On the other
hand, the absence of such a influence is beneficial in the way that the model is robust to
the chosen base specification.




                                              37
5.2.3   Coupled component

I estimate the coupled component model by optimizing the likelihood functions in equation
(24) and equation (25). After repeatedly optimizing these functions sequentially, I end
up with an optimized set of parameters ϕ, as in equation (20), and the long run function
σ k (s). The parameters ϕ can be found in Table 9 and in Table 10. ωD is mostly positive
and always larger than ωN , which is always negative. It should be noted that I consider
an exponential model, and that ω k , the unconditional mean of the short run volatility, can
not be negative in exponential form. The intraday short run volatility is thus larger than
the overnight short run volatility. βD and βN are large, but significantly smaller than one,
indicating a stable, yet autoregressive, process. However, these terms are smaller than in
Linton and Wu (2020) suggesting less correlation in short term volatility in the period
2017 to 2022. γD and ρD are always positive and significant. The same holds for γN and
                                                                           ∗
ρN . This implies, in combination with the significant and negative terms γD , ρ∗D , γN
                                                                                      ∗
                                                                                        and
ρ∗N , that negative returns are followed by higher volatility. The values are roughly the
same as in Linton and Wu (2020). This does not apply to νD and νN . These parameters
refer to the degree of freedom from the distribution of volatilities. νD is lower on average
(value of 2.92) and νN is larger on average (value of 8.45). This means more leptokurtic
overnight volatilities and the other way around for intraday returns. The earlier seen data
already indicates that COVID-19 crashes mostly occurred during the night, giving rise to
a more leptokurtic distribution. In combination with smaller ωk for overnight returns, I
conclude that overnight returns are less volatile but their distribution has more kurtosis.
   A more formal way of showing the difference in dynamics between overnight and in-
traday volatility is conducting a Wald test on the parameter estimates. The p-values of
these tests can be found in Table 11 just as the null hypothesis. The null hypothesis
states equality between the overnight and intraday parameters. The equality of the un-
conditional mean ωk and the degree-of-freedom parameter νk are rejected for all stocks.
The parameters γk , γk∗ , ρk and ρ∗k are seldom rejected. However, in contrast to Linton
and Wu (2020), I reject the equality of βk very often. This means that the autoregres-
sive dynamics have changed during the last five years, probably caused by the reversals
and crashes during March 2020. This results is also reflected in the p-values of the joint
null hypothesis, which is also more often rejected. Short term dynamics have therefore
diverged in the last couple of years for intraday versus overnight volatility.
                                             38
   Figure 31 presents the long run component σ k (s). This function is optimized repeat-
edly to convergence. It is important to remember that both functions, intraday and
overnight, are standardized multiple times. The intraday long run volatility is actually
higher than the overnight long run volatility. However, using this approach the long
run relative dynamics can be observed. For most stocks, the overnight component is
smaller than before the financial crisis (second vertical grey dotted line) and is higher
than the intraday component after. Another communal characteristic, for both intraday
and overnight, are the maxima around the crisis periods, indicated by the grey dotted
lines. The dynamics during the pandemic differ from the dynamics during the other two
crises periods. Relative overnight volatilities rise higher during this crisis, while rising to
the same relative level as intraday volatilities during the other two crises.
   The ratio of total overnight to total intraday volatility, as given in equation (38), is
shown in Figure 32. The ratio is increasing for almost all stocks during the sample period.
Most stocks have the largest peak during the corona crisis, but another often appearing
peak is found around 2011/2012. This is the period when the long run (standardized)
overnight volatility became relatively larger than its intraday opposite. The interpretation
of the absolute value of the ratio, sometimes greater than one, is not that simple. The
ratio uses the total volatility, which is a combination of the long and short run component.
Although the short run component is reliable, the long run component is standardized
repeatedly and the ratio can therefore not be interpreted as a fair ratio. However, the
increase of this ratio does have a nice interpretation as a relative increase in overnight to
intraday volatility.
   I consider the total volatility for each stock in Figure 33. The definition for the total
volatility is of great influence on the given results. The total volatility consists of both
the long and short run component. Both are in practice greater in magnitude for intraday
returns. The long run is however standardized. Although the short run is larger, the total
volatility does not differ that much in size. This is due to the scalar νkν−2
                                                                           k
                                                                              . This scalar
goes to one for ν going to infinity. Intraday returns have less kurtosis with a average
νD of 8.45. νN is 2.92 on average. As a result, the total overnight volatility is scaled by
3.2, while the total intraday volatility is scaled by 1.3. In the figure, this comes down to
                          √           
                             8.45/6.45
a relative scaling of 1.6  √             in favour of the overnight volatility. Although the
                              2.92/0.92
scaling is reasonable, as it includes the heavy tails of the overnight returns, it remains

                                              39
the question if it should be included in a total volatility equation. Nevertheless, the most
important feature of the Figure is whether or not both time series converge, diverge or
remain at the same relative height. Basically every two time series converge over the
sample period. This is due to the decrease of total intraday volatility after the dot-com
bubble. The ratio of overnight to intraday total volatility increases as a result and is in
accordance with Figure 32. Overnight returns are also found to top intraday returns in
absolute magnitude during crises periods as indicated by the greater total volatility in
these time intervals.
   Finally, I consider the t-statistics from the constancy of ratio test in Figure 34. The
pattern of these t-statistics is in line with the ratios of overnight to intraday volatility,
namely increasing over time. As the test is considered with respect to the mean, all t-
statistics cross the 95% confidence bounds in approximately one half on the time series.
Stocks, such as WBA and WMT, which have a rather constant ratio, fall between these
bounds for most periods and thus have a constant volatility ratio. However, most stocks
have an increasing volatility ratio and the null hypothesis of a constant ratio is rejected
for most periods.


5.2.4   two-component

The estimation procedure of the two-component differs from the coupled component.
Instead of optimizing the short and long run component sequentially, the short and long
run component are estimated simultaneously. This make it more time-efficient. Both
components are estimated using a filter. The long run from the coupled component
uses kernel technology giving it a relatively smooth function, although it is not perfectly
smooth as the wider the kernel, the smoother the function. A filter has by default a more
shaky pattern. To enable a fair comparison between both specifications (coupled and
two-component), I use a quadratic spline to transform the long run component λk1,t into a
smooth function. The results of these transformations can be found in Figure 35. λk1,t is
smoother than σ k (s) due to previous mentioned reasons. λk1,t follows σ k (s) really well. The
overnight and intraday functions intersect at the same time and the dominant function
matches as well. A difference is the curvature of the overnight function. Where both
intraday and overnight have the same curvature in Figure 31, in Figure 35 the intraday
function has relatively more curvature. This is explained by the standardization. This

                                              40
happens multiple times in the coupled component estimation, but only once in the two-
component estimation. The overnight functions are flatter for that reason. The same
conclusions as for the coupled component hold. At approximately one half of the sample
period, the overnight long run component becomes larger than the intraday long run
component. Notice again that this is relative, as both functions have been standardized.
Intraday volatility is actually larger.
   Figure 36 displays the ratios of overnight to intraday total volatility. The patterns are
roughly the same as for the coupled component model. Two things stand out. Firstly,
the ratios are smoother and denser, as direct consequence of the smoother long run com-
ponents. Secondly, the local minima and maxima do match up for both models. The
ratios are increasing over the total interval and again I find maxima for all stocks around
2011/2012, mainly due to the relative larger long run component since that time.
   After all, Figure 37 gives the total volatility for the intraday and overnight returns. The
two-component model captures the total volatility well when using the coupled component
as benchmark. The functions look again denser and smoother due to the quadratic spline.
The value of K (see equation 32) equals 15, which captures the curvature nicely. Total
intraday volatility converges to total overnight volatility generally. The volatility values
on the y-axis for both models are not comparable and do not have a clear interpretation.
This is due to the estimation procedure. The total volatility depends on νk , the short
run component and the long run component. νk differs between models as it is optimized
simultaneously or sequentially. The long run component is standardized ones or several
times and the short run parameters also have a different dependece structure due to the
estimation procedures. Therefore, we should concentrate on the relative behaviour of the
overnight and intraday volatilities and the shape of the corresponding functions. These
are definitely comparable. Although both methodologies differ substantially, the results
are roughly the same in terms of pattern and relative dynamics. The results are thus
robust to the methodology, which provides a stronger conclusion.


5.2.5   Case study: Amgen and Microsoft

Although the long run, ratio and total volatility of both models have been compared and
discussed individually, it is interesting to zoom in on two particular stocks. In this way I
can directly compare the two models more efficiently and cover some other characteristics

                                             41
as well. The choice of these two stocks is random and could be replaced with any of the
stocks. Amgen (AMGN) and Microsoft (MSFT) are the considered stocks.
   Figure 10 compares the long run components of AMGN, with σ k (s) in the left subfigure
and λk1,t on the right. The three vertical lines represent the following crises: dot-com
bubble (10 March 2000), financial crisis (16 September 2008) and the corona crisis (9
March 2020). These vertical lines are the same for all upcoming figures. The intersections
are almost parallel and the surpassion of the overnight long run volatility happens for
both models around 2006. The relative importance of overnight volatility has thus been
increasing over the sample period. The local maxima during the COVID-19 pandemic
shows that it is and still is important to differiate between intraday and overnight returns.
Extreme local values are visible in both subfigures and maxima are most of the time
reached during the crises moments. The spline smoothness parameter K has a value of
fifteen and manages to capture the same level of curvature.




Figure 10: The long run component σ k (·), for k ∈ {D, N }, of the coupled component
(left) and the long run component λk1,t , for k ∈ {D, N }, of the two-component (right).


   The ratios of total volatilities can be found in Figure 11. The definition of these
ratios are given in equation (38) and equation (39). The coupled component (left) and
two-component (right) behave quite similar. The two-component is a bit smoother and
denser due to the smoothness of the quadratic spline in the long run component. Both
have maxima around 2009 and 2011. Both models capture an increasing trend and thus
a relative increase of overnight volatility to intraday volatility.

                                              42
Figure 11:             The ratio of overnight to intraday volatility, where volatility is
                        r               h                  i
                             νk                            t
measured as                 νk −2
                                  exp       2λkt + 2σtk    T
                                                                 for the coupled component (left) and as
r               h                              i
     νk
    νk −2
          exp       2ωk + 2λk2,t + 2λk1,t for the two-component (right).


     Although the (relative) ratio increase, it is interesting to plot both volatility sepa-
rately as well. Figure 12 shows the total volatility for both models. The patterns by
both EGARCH models are almost identical in terms of increase, decrease, local minima
and local maxima. The scale differs by a multiple, but this is due to the difference in
methodology. The scale is in any case not relevant, as the total volatility consists of
standardized variables and parameters, which are optimized to a lesser extent. For this
reason, the focus should lay on the dynamics. These are matches quite fairly. In both
figures there is convergence of the time series, indicating an importance increase of the
overnight volatility, already seen in Figure 11. Most maxima are during the crises periods
as expected.
     Now I consider the same analysis for the Microsoft stock. Figure 13 shows the long
run components of both models, which have a lot of shared features. They have the
same local maxima/minima, intersect at the same moments in time and have maxima at
the indicated crises dates. The main difference is the level of smoothness. The long run
volatility of the stock is thus model robust.
     The total volatility ratio of MSFT is shown in Figure 14. The ratios behave differently
at first sight. However, the maxima at 1998, 2005, 2012 and 2016 do match. One as well
as the other have a drop during the dot-com bubble and the financial crisis, which is quite
inconsistent with the other stocks, but consistent across models. In addition, the ratios
are increasing over the entire sample period, but seem to stabilize to a certain degree.
                                           43
                                                                           r               h                  i
                                                                                νk                            t
Figure 12: Total intraday and overnight volatility, measured as                νk −2
                                                                                     exp       2λkt + 2σtk    T
                                                r               h                              i
                                                     νk
for the coupled component (left) and as             νk −2
                                                          exp       2ωk + 2λk2,t + 2λk1,t for the two-
component (right).




Figure 13: The long run component σ k (·), for k ∈ {D, N }, of the coupled component
(left) and the long run component λk1,t , for k ∈ {D, N }, of the two-component (right).


The V-shape for the period 2020-2022 is not unusual, as seen in multiple stock ratios.
   The total volatilities are depicted in Figure 15. Convergence of overnight and intraday
returns, higher intraday volatility in absolute value, higher intraday volatility before the
financial crisis in relative sense and the maxima during crises periods are all features of this
Figure and the before discussed total volatility plots. These features are clearly matched
in both models. The only difference is displayed in the scale, which is due the difference
in methodology and caused by the (under-)optimizing of the short run parameters, as the
                                         44
Figure 14:             The ratio of overnight to intraday volatility, where volatility is
                        r               h                  i
                             νk                            t
measured as                 νk −2
                                  exp       2λkt + 2σtk    T
                                                                 for the coupled component (left) and as
r               h                              i
     νk
    νk −2
          exp       2ωk + 2λk2,t + 2λk1,t for the two-component (right).


long run components are actually matched in scale.




                                                                                             r               h                  i
                                                                                                  νk                            t
Figure 15: Total intraday and overnight volatility, measured as                                  νk −2
                                                                                                       exp       2λkt + 2σtk    T
                                                                  r               h                              i
                                                                       νk
for the coupled component (left) and as                               νk −2
                                                                            exp       2ωk + 2λk2,t + 2λk1,t for the two-
component (right).


     I will now cover some characteristics which, due to the use of multiple functions, are
hard to interpret when shown for all stocks at once as in Appendix C. These characteristics
focus on the two-component model. Figure 16 shows the unstandardized long run filter
λk1,t with their corresponding splines for AMGN and MSFT. The difference in long run
volatility between intraday and overnight returns stands out. This provides the evidence
                                                                 45
that the total volatility (ratios) should be evaluated with care. Splines are fitted to the
filter with K equal to 5, 10 and 15. When K becomes larger, the spline is fitted to a
greater extent to the filter, which will cause an increase in curvature. The choice of K is
a typical bias-variance trade off when used for forecasting, but is solely based on linking
the two models to the best extent. It turns out that K equal to 15 has the best fit, as
this value is used among all long run components from the two-component model. The
estimation procedure of the two-component uses a filter as explained in the methodology
section. As a result, the long run filter λk1,t is not a smooth function as shown in the
figure. In combination with the quadratic spline method, the long run component can be
matched to σ k (s). The optimization procedure of the coupled component has this spline
feature thus build-in in the sequential likelihood optimization. The ‘smoothing’ process
in this likelihood optimization is caused by the kernel technology, which by definition uses
a weighted average of observations (rolling window) resulting in a (relatively) smoothed
function.




Figure 16: The long run filter λk1,t (k ∈ {D, N }) with splines for K ∈ {5, 10, 15} of the
two-component.


   The unstandardized long run filters of intraday and overnight returns are depicted in
Figure 17. This time in combination with the short run processes. The blue lines refer
to the intraday volatility, where the red lines refer to the overnight volatility. The short
run process λk2,t is shaky and moves around the unconditional mean ωk of the short run
process, which is larger for the intraday returns for all stocks (table 10). The long run
filter λk1,t is less shaky. For both stocks, λD                 N
                                              1,t converges to λ1,t over the sample period.

The relative importance increase of overnight volatility is thus explained by a decrease of
                                           46
intraday long run volatility, rather than by an increase of overnight long run volatility.
This phenomenon is also visible for almost all stocks in Figure 33 and Figure 37. However,
in those figures, the long run component is standardized and the result is mainly driven
by the short run process and the relative change in long run volatility. Figure 17 displays
that also the long run process complements this phenomenon.




Figure 17: Short and long run component for intraday and overnight volatility of the
two-component.




Figure 18: T -statistics of the constancy of ratio test for the ratio of intraday and overnight
volatility of the coupled component.


   Lastly, Figure 18 shows the t-statistics of the constancy of ratio test for the ratio of
intraday and overnight volatility of the coupled component for both AMGN and MSFT.
Both stocks have an increasing ratio and thus also an increasing t-statistic. Constancy is
rejected for both stocks before the dot-com bubble and numerous times for shorts periods
                                              47
after. Nevertheless, both stocks have a quite constant ratio since 2000. The constancy of
the ratio of MSFT is effected mostly by the COVID-19 crisis.



6     Conclusion
This study examines the difference between intraday and overnight returns. The empirical
results show that overnight minus intraday returns are significantly greater than zero for
the period 2016-2022 when sorting on upside close-to-close volatility. This indicates a
change of retail investor behaviour and activity. The difference in return is robust against
the dynamics around market opening and closure, which are volatile moments.
    Adding multiple components to dynamic conditional score EGARCH models can pro-
vide for separately modelling the returns allowing for different dynamical properties. I
develop the two-component model, which nicely captures all features from the coupled
component model and is more time-efficient.
    Overnight volatility increases in relative importance, which is caused by a decrease of
intraday volatility over the period 1993-2022. Overnight volatility however stays smaller
than intraday volatility in absolute terms, although overnight returns are more leptokurtic.
    In conclusion, intraday and overnight returns have quite different dynamics and should
be modelled accordingly. This could be done using a DCS-EGARCH model, as these
models are robust to the exact specification.
    This analysis could be extended in several directions. One interesting direction would
be to use retail investor data to test the direct relation between (upside) volatility and
retail investor strategies. Next to that, the analysis could be performed on several different
markets and products. Additionally, the assumptions of the kernel size, the curvature
parameter of the spline and the non-linear optimization could be investigated.




                                             48
Bibliography
K. Aretz and S. M. Bartram. Making money while you sleep? Anomalies in international
  day and night returns. Anomalies in International Day and Night Returns (July 24,
  2015), 2015.

O. E. Barndorff-Nielsen, S. Kinnebrock, and N. Shephard. Measuring downside risk-
  realised semivariance. CREATES Research Paper, (2008-42), 2008.

V. A. Basdekidou et al. The overnight return temporal market anomaly. International
  Journal of Economics and Finance, 9(3):1–10, 2017.

H. Berkman, P. D. Koch, L. Tuttle, and Y. J. Zhang. Paying attention: Overnight returns
  and the hidden cost of buying at the open. Journal of Financial and Quantitative
  Analysis, 47(4):715–741, 2012.

V. L. Bernard. Cross-sectional dependence and problems in inference in market-based
  accounting research. Journal of Accounting Research, pages 1–48, 1987.

B. S. Branch and A. J. Ma. The overnight return, one more anomaly. One More Anomaly
  (September 6, 2006), 2006.

B. S. Branch and A. J. Ma. Overnight return, the invisible hand behind intraday returns?
  Journal of Applied Finance (Formerly Financial Practice and Education), 22(2), 2012.

T. T. Cai and M. Qiu. International evidence on overnight return anomaly. Unpublished
  working paper. Massey University, 2009.

M. J. Cooper, M. T. Cliff, and H. Gulen. Return differences between trading and non-
  trading hours: Like night and day. Unpublished working paper. Virginia Tech, 2008.

F. Corsi. A simple approximate long-memory model of realized volatility. Journal of
  Financial Econometrics, 7(2):174–196, 2009.

R. F. Engle and J. G. Rangel. The spline-GARCH model for low-frequency volatility and
  its global macroeconomic causes. The Review of Financial Studies, 21(3):1187–1222,
  2008.



                                            49
K. R. French and R. Roll. Stock return variances: The arrival of information and the
  reaction of traders. Journal of Financial Economics, 17(1):5–26, 1986.

X. Gong and B. Lin. Effects of structural changes on the prediction of downside volatility
  in futures markets. Journal of Futures Markets, 41(7):1124–1153, 2021.

A. Harvey and R.-J. Lange. Modeling the interactions between volatility and returns
  using EGARCH-M. Journal of Time Series Analysis, 39(6):909–919, 2018.

A. C. Harvey. Dynamic models for volatility and heavy tails: with applications to financial
  and economic time series, volume 52. Cambridge University Press, 2013.

T. Hendershott, D. Livdan, and D. Rösch. Asset pricing: A tale of night and day. Journal
  of Financial Economics, 138(3):635–662, 2020.

H. Hong and J. Wang. Trading and returns under periodic market closures. The Journal
  of Finance, 55(1):297–354, 2000.

C. Inclan and G. C. Tiao. Use of cumulative sums of squares for retrospective detection of
  changes of variance. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 89(427):913–923,
  1994.

C. X. Jiang, T. Likitapiwat, and T. H. McInish. Information content of earnings an-
  nouncements: Evidence from after-hours trading. Journal of Financial and Quantitative
  Analysis, 47(6):1303–1330, 2012.

M. A. Kelly and S. P. Clark. Returns in trading versus non-trading hours: The difference
  is day and night. Journal of Asset Management, 12(2):132–145, 2011.

M.-E. Lachance. Night trading: Lower risk but higher returns? Unpublished working
  paper. San Diego State University, 2015.

O. Ledoit and M. Wolf. Robust performance hypothesis testing with the Sharpe ratio.
  Journal of Empirical Finance, 15(5):850–859, 2008.

O. Linton and J. Wu. A coupled component DCS-EGARCH model for intraday and
  overnight volatility. Journal of Econometrics, 217(1):176–201, 2020.



                                             50
F. A. Longstaff. How much can marketability affect security values?    The Journal of
  Finance, 50(5):1767–1774, 1995.

D. Lou, C. Polk, and S. Skouras. A tug of war: Overnight versus intraday expected
  returns. Journal of Financial Economics, 134(1):192–213, 2019.

E. M. Miller. Risk, uncertainty, and divergence of opinion. The Journal of Finance, 32
  (4):1151–1168, 1977.

D. Muravyev and X. C. Ni. Why do option returns change sign from day to night? Journal
  of Financial Economics, 136(1):219–238, 2020.

W. K. Newey and K. D. West. A simple, positive semi-definite, heteroskedasticity and
  autocorrelationconsistent covariance matrix. Econometrica, 55(3):703–708, 1987.

J. D. J. Opdyke. Comparing Sharpe ratios: So where are the p-values? Journal of Asset
  Management, 8(5):308–336, 2007.

R. A. Wood, T. H. McInish, and J. K. Ord. An investigation of transactions data for
  NYSE stocks. The Journal of Finance, 40(3):723–739, 1985.




                                          51
Appendix A                  Data composition

A.1       S&P500

The main sample consists of the 504 S&P500 stocks as of April 4, 2022. This includes
the changes on April 4, 2022, when Camden (CPT) was added and People’s United
Financial (PBCT) was removed. Although the name of the S&P500 would anticipate
otherwise, the index contains 504 stocks, because five constituents have two share classes
(Alphabet, Discovery, Fox Corporation, News Corp, Under Armour). Table 2 gives the
exact composition of the sample.

                       Table 2: Main sample: S&P500 constituents


 Ticker     Name                               Ticker   Name
 MMM        3M                                 AOS      A. O. Smith
 ABT        Abbott Laboratories                ABBV     AbbVie
 ABMD       Abiomed                            ACN      Accenture
 ATVI       Activision Blizzard                ADM      ADM
 ADBE       Adobe                              AAP      Advance Auto Parts
 AMD        Advanced Micro Devices             AES      AES Corp
 AFL        Aflac                              A        Agilent Technologies
 APD        Air Products & Chemicals           AKAM     Akamai Technologies
 ALK        Alaska Air Group                   ALB      Albemarle Corporation
 ARE        Alexandria Real Estate Equities    ALGN     Align Technology
 ALLE       Allegion                           LNT      Alliant Energy
 ALL        Allstate Corp                      GOOGL    Alphabet (Class A)
 GOOG       Alphabet (Class C)                 MO       Altria Group
 AMZN       Amazon                             AMCR     Amcor
 AEE        Ameren Corp                        AAL      American Airlines Group
 AEP        American Electric Power            AXP      American Express
 AIG        American International Group       AMT      American Tower
 AWK        American Water Works               AMP      Ameriprise Financial
 ABC        AmerisourceBergen                  AME      Ametek
 AMGN       Amgen                              APH      Amphenol
 ADI        Analog Devices                     ANSS     Ansys
 ANTM       Anthem                             AON      Aon
 APA        APA Corporation                    AAPL     Apple
                                                                       Continued on Next Page

                                              52
                      Table 2: Main sample: S&P500 constituents


Ticker    Name                              Ticker   Name
AMAT      Applied Materials                 APTV     Aptiv
ANET      Arista Networks                   AJG      Arthur J. Gallagher & Co.
AIZ       Assurant                          T        AT&T
ATO       Atmos Energy                      ADSK     Autodesk
ADP       Automatic Data Processing         AZO      AutoZone
AVB       AvalonBay Communities             AVY      Avery Dennison
BKR       Baker Hughes                      BLL      Ball Corp
BAC       Bank of America                   BBWI     Bath & Body Works Inc.
BAX       Baxter International              BDX      Becton Dickinson
BRKB.VI   Berkshire Hathaway                BBY      Best Buy
BIO       Bio-Rad Laboratories              TECH     Bio-Techne
BIIB      Biogen                            BLK      BlackRock
BK        BNY Mellon                        BA       Boeing
BKNG      Booking Holdings                  BWA      BorgWarner
BXP       Boston Properties                 BSX      Boston Scientific
BMY       Bristol Myers Squibb              AVGO     Broadcom
BR        Broadridge Financial Solutions    BRO      Brown & Brown
BF-B      Brown–Forman                      CHRW     C. H. Robinson
CDNS      Cadence Design Systems            CZR      Caesars Entertainment
CPB       Campbell Soup                     COF      Capital One Financial
CAH       Cardinal Health                   KMX      CarMax
CCL       Carnival Corporation              CARR     Carrier Global
CTLT      Catalent                          CAT      Caterpillar
CBOE      Cboe Global Markets               CBRE     CBRE
CDW       CDW                               CE       Celanese
CNC       Centene Corporation               CNP      CenterPoint Energy
CDAY      Ceridian                          CERN     Cerner
CF        CF Industries                     CRL      Charles River Laboratories
SCHW      Charles Schwab Corporation        CHTR     Charter Communications
CVX       Chevron Corporation               CMG      Chipotle Mexican Grill
CB        Chubb                             CHD      Church & Dwight
CI        Cigna                             CINF     Cincinnati Financial
CTAS      Cintas Corporation                CSCO     Cisco Systems
C         Citigroup                         CFG      Citizens Financial Group
                                                                   Continued on Next Page

                                           53
                       Table 2: Main sample: S&P500 constituents


Ticker   Name                              Ticker   Name
CTXS     Citrix Systems                    CLX      Clorox
CME      CME Group                         CMS      CMS Energy
KO       Coca-Cola Company                 CTSH     Cognizant Technology Solutions
CL       Colgate-Palmolive                 CMCSA    Comcast
CMA      Comerica                          CAG      Conagra Brands
COP      ConocoPhillips                    ED       Consolidated Edison
STZ      Constellation Brands              CPRT     Copart
GLW      Corning                           CTVA     Corteva
COST     Costco                            CTRA     Coterra
CCI      Crown Castle                      CSX      CSX
CMI      Cummins                           CVS      CVS Health
DHI      D. R. Horton                      DHR      Danaher Corporation
DRI      Darden Restaurants                DVA      DaVita
DE       Deere & Co.                       DAL      Delta Air Lines
XRAY     Dentsply Sirona                   DVN      Devon Energy
DXCM     DexCom                            FANG     Diamondback Energy
DLR      Digital Realty Trust              DFS      Discover Financial Services
DISCA    Discovery (Series A)              DISCK    Discovery (Series C)
DISH     Dish Network                      DG       Dollar General
DLTR     Dollar Tree                       D        Dominion Energy
DPZ      Domino’s Pizza                    DOV      Dover Corporation
DOW      Dow                               DTE      DTE Energy
DUK      Duke Energy                       DRE      Duke Realty Corp
DD       DuPont                            DXC      DXC Technology
EMN      Eastman Chemical                  ETN      Eaton Corporation
EBAY     eBay                              ECL      Ecolab
EIX      Edison International              EW       Edwards Lifesciences
EA       Electronic Arts                   LLY      Eli Lilly & Co
EMR      Emerson Electric Company          ENPH     Enphase Energy
ETR      Entergy                           EOG      EOG Resources
EFX      Equifax                           EQIX     Equinix
EQR      Equity Residential                ESS      Essex Property Trust
EL       Estée Lauder Companies           ETSY     Etsy
RE       Everest Re                        EVRG     Evergy
                                                                 Continued on Next Page

                                          54
                     Table 2: Main sample: S&P500 constituents


Ticker   Name                            Ticker   Name
ES       Eversource Energy               EXC      Exelon
EXPE     Expedia Group                   EXPD     Expeditors
EXR      Extra Space Storage             XOM      ExxonMobil
FFIV     F5 Networks                     FB       Facebook
FAST     Fastenal                        FRT      Federal Realty Investment Trust
FDX      FedEx                           FIS      Fidelity National Information Services
FITB     Fifth Third Bancorp             FRC      First Republic Bank
FE       FirstEnergy                     FISV     Fiserv
FLT      Fleetcor                        FMC      FMC Corporation
F        Ford                            FTNT     Fortinet
FTV      Fortive                         FBHS     Fortune Brands Home & Security
FOXA     Fox Corporation (Class A)       FOX      Fox Corporation (Class B)
BEN      Franklin Resources              FCX      Freeport-McMoRan
CEG      Gap                             GRMN     Garmin
IT       Gartner                         GNRC     Generac Holdings
GD       General Dynamics                GE       General Electric
GIS      General Mills                   GM       General Motors
GPC      Genuine Parts                   GILD     Gilead Sciences
GPN      Global Payments                 GL       Globe Life
GS       Goldman Sachs                   HAL      Halliburton
SEDG     Hanesbrands                     HAS      Hasbro
HCA      HCA Healthcare                  PEAK     Healthpeak Properties
HSIC     Henry Schein                    HES      Hess Corporation
HPE      Hewlett Packard Enterprise      HLT      Hilton Worldwide
HOLX     Hologic                         HD       Home Depot
HON      Honeywell                       HRL      Hormel
HST      Host Hotels & Resorts           HWM      Howmet Aerospace
HPQ      HP                              HUM      Humana
HBAN     Huntington Bancshares           HII      Huntington Ingalls Industries
IBM      IBM                             IEX      IDEX Corporation
IDXX     Idexx Laboratories              MOH      IHS Markit
ITW      Illinois Tool Works             ILMN     Illumina
INCY     Incyte                          IR       Ingersoll Rand
INTC     Intel                           ICE      Intercontinental Exchange
                                                                Continued on Next Page

                                        55
                      Table 2: Main sample: S&P500 constituents


Ticker   Name                                  Ticker   Name
IFF      International Flavors & Fragrances    IP       International Paper
IPG      Interpublic Group                     INTU     Intuit
ISRG     Intuitive Surgical                    IVZ      Invesco
IPGP     IPG Photonics                         IQV      IQVIA
IRM      Iron Mountain                         JBHT     J. B. Hunt
JKHY     Jack Henry & Associates               J        Jacobs Engineering Group
SJM      JM Smucker                            JNJ      Johnson & Johnson
JCI      Johnson Controls                      JPM      JPMorgan Chase
JNPR     Juniper Networks                      EPAM     Kansas City Southern
K        Kellogg’s                             KEY      KeyCorp
KEYS     Keysight Technologies                 KMB      Kimberly-Clark
KIM      Kimco Realty                          KMI      Kinder Morgan
KLAC     KLA Corporation                       KHC      Kraft Heinz
KR       Kroger                                LHX      L3Harris Technologies
LH       LabCorp                               LRCX     Lam Research
LW       Lamb Weston                           LVS      Las Vegas Sands
SBNY     Leggett & Platt                       LDOS     Leidos
LEN      Lennar                                LNC      Lincoln National
LIN      Linde                                 LYV      Live Nation Entertainment
LKQ      LKQ Corporation                       LMT      Lockheed Martin
L        Loews Corporation                     LOW      Lowe’s
LUMN     Lumen Technologies                    LYB      LyondellBasell
MTB      M&T Bank                              MRO      Marathon Oil
MPC      Marathon Petroleum                    MKTX     MarketAxess
MAR      Marriott International                MMC      Marsh & McLennan
MLM      Martin Marietta Materials             MAS      Masco
MA       Mastercard                            MTCH     Match Group
MKC      McCormick & Company                   MCD      McDonald’s
MCK      McKesson Corporation                  MDT      Medtronic
MRK      Merck & Co.                           MET      MetLife
MTD      Mettler Toledo                        MGM      MGM Resorts International
MCHP     Microchip Technology                  MU       Micron Technology
MSFT     Microsoft                             MAA      Mid-America Apartments
MRNA     Moderna                               MHK      Mohawk Industries
                                                                       Continued on Next Page

                                              56
                       Table 2: Main sample: S&P500 constituents


Ticker   Name                                Ticker   Name
TAP      Molson Coors Beverage Company       MDLZ     Mondelez International
MPWR     Monolithic Power Systems            MNST     Monster Beverage
MCO      Moody’s Corporation                 MS       Morgan Stanley
MSI      Motorola Solutions                  MSCI     MSCI
NDAQ     Nasdaq                              NTAP     NetApp
NFLX     Netflix                             NWL      Newell Brands
NEM      Newmont                             NWSA     News Corp (Class A)
NWS      News Corp (Class B)                 NEE      NextEra Energy
NLSN     Nielsen Holdings                    NKE      Nike
NI       NiSource                            NSC      Norfolk Southern
NTRS     Northern Trust                      NOC      Northrop Grumman
NLOK     NortonLifeLock                      NCLH     Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings
NRG      NRG Energy                          NUE      Nucor
NVDA     Nvidia                              NVR      NVR
NXPI     NXP                                 ORLY     O’Reilly Automotive
OXY      Occidental Petroleum                ODFL     Old Dominion Freight Line
OMC      Omnicom Group                       OKE      Oneok
ORCL     Oracle                              OGN      Organon & Co.
OTIS     Otis Worldwide                      PCAR     Paccar
PKG      Packaging Corporation of America    PH       Parker-Hannifin
PAYX     Paychex                             PAYC     Paycom
PYPL     PayPal                              PENN     Penn National Gaming
PNR      Pentair                             CPT      People’s United Financial
PEP      PepsiCo                             PKI      PerkinElmer
PFE      Pfizer                              PM       Philip Morris International
PSX      Phillips 66                         PNW      Pinnacle West Capital
PXD      Pioneer Natural Resources           PNC      PNC Financial Services
POOL     Pool Corporation                    PPG      PPG Industries
PPL      PPL                                 PFG      Principal Financial Group
PG       Procter & Gamble                    PGR      Progressive Corporation
PLD      Prologis                            PRU      Prudential Financial
PTC      PTC                                 PEG      Public Service Enterprise Group
PSA      Public Storage                      PHM      PulteGroup
PVH      PVH                                 QRVO     Qorvo
                                                                    Continued on Next Page

                                            57
                    Table 2: Main sample: S&P500 constituents


Ticker   Name                           Ticker   Name
QCOM     Qualcomm                       PWR      Quanta Services
DGX      Quest Diagnostics              RL       Ralph Lauren Corporation
RJF      Raymond James Financial        RTX      Raytheon Technologies
O        Realty Income Corporation      REG      Regency Centers
REGN     Regeneron Pharmaceuticals      RF       Regions Financial Corporation
RSG      Republic Services              RMD      ResMed
RHI      Robert Half International      ROK      Rockwell Automation
ROL      Rollins                        ROP      Roper Technologies
ROST     Ross Stores                    RCL      Royal Caribbean Group
SPGI     S&P Global                     CRM      Salesforce
SBAC     SBA Communications             SLB      Schlumberger
STX      Seagate Technology             SEE      Sealed Air
SRE      Sempra Energy                  NOW      ServiceNow
SHW      Sherwin-Williams               SPG      Simon Property Group
SWKS     Skyworks Solutions             SNA      Snap-on
SO       Southern Company               LUV      Southwest Airlines
SWK      Stanley Black & Decker         SBUX     Starbucks
STT      State Street Corporation       STE      Steris
SYK      Stryker Corporation            SIVB     SVB Financial
SYF      Synchrony Financial            SNPS     Synopsys
SYY      Sysco                          TMUS     T-Mobile US
TROW     T. Rowe Price                  TTWO     Take-Two Interactive
TPR      Tapestry                       TGT      Target Corporation
TEL      TE Connectivity                TDY      Teledyne Technologies
TFX      Teleflex                       TER      Teradyne
TSLA     Tesla                          TXN      Texas Instruments
TXT      Textron                        COO      The Cooper Companies
HIG      The Hartford                   HSY      The Hershey Company
MOS      The Mosaic Company             TRV      The Travelers Companies
DIS      The Walt Disney Company        TMO      Thermo Fisher Scientific
TJX      TJX Companies                  TSCO     Tractor Supply Company
TT       Trane Technologies             TDG      TransDigm Group
TRMB     Trimble                        TFC      Truist Financial
TWTR     Twitter                        TYL      Tyler Technologies
                                                                Continued on Next Page

                                       58
                         Table 2: Main sample: S&P500 constituents


 Ticker      Name                            Ticker   Name
 TSN         Tyson Foods                     USB      U.S. Bancorp
 UDR         UDR                             ULTA     Ulta Beauty
 UAA         Under Armour (Class A)          UA       Under Armour (Class C)
 UNP         Union Pacific                   UAL      United Airlines
 UPS         United Parcel Service           URI      United Rentals
 UNH         UnitedHealth Group              UHS      Universal Health Services
 VLO         Valero Energy                   VTR      Ventas
 VRSN        Verisign                        VRSK     Verisk Analytics
 VZ          Verizon Communications          VRTX     Vertex Pharmaceuticals
 VFC         VF Corporation                  VTRS     Viatris
 V           Visa                            VNO      Vornado Realty Trust
 VMC         Vulcan Materials                WRB      W. R. Berkley Corporation
 GWW         W. W. Grainger                  WAB      Wabtec
 WBA         Walgreens Boots Alliance        WMT      Walmart
 WM          Waste Management                WAT      Waters Corporation
 WEC         WEC Energy Group                WFC      Wells Fargo
 WELL        Welltower                       WST      West Pharmaceutical Services
 WDC         Western Digital                 FDS      Western Union
 WRK         WestRock                        WY       Weyerhaeuser
 WHR         Whirlpool Corporation           WMB      Williams Companies
 WTW         Willis Towers Watson            WYNN     Wynn Resorts
 XEL         Xcel Energy                     NDSN     Xilinx
 XYL         Xylem                           YUM      Yum! Brands
 ZBRA        Zebra Technologies              ZBH      Zimmer Biomet
 ZION        Zions Bancorp                   ZTS      Zoetis




     For the main analysis, stocks with less than ten years of data are removed. I end
up with 456 stocks. The removed 48 stocks are: ABBV, ALLE, AMCR, ANET, APTV,
BRKB.VI, CARR, CDAY, CDW, CEG, CFG, CTLT, CTVA, CZR, DOW, ENPH, EPAM,
ETSY, FANG, FB, FOX, FOXA, FTV, HLT, HPE, HWM, IQV, IR, KEYS, KHC, LW,
MRNA, NCLH, NOW, NWS, NWSA, OGN, OTIS, PAYC, PSX, PYPL, QRVO, SEDG,
SYF, TWTR, UA, WRK, ZTS.


                                            59
A.2    Institutional Ownership

When doing the analysis on institutional ownership, I lose, for mentioned reasons, six
stocks. Stocks lost in institutional ownership: BF-B, CMCSA, DISCA, DISCK, GOOGL,
MOS


A.3    Dow 30

The constituents of the Dow 30 can be found in Table 3. All stocks are present in the
S&P500 and can thus be searched by name in Table 2.

                              Table 3: Dow 30 constituents


                   Tickers Dow 30

                   MMM        CAT      GS         JNJ    NKE     VZ
                   AXP        CVX      HD         JPM    PG      V
                   AMGN       CSCO     HON        MCD    CRM     WBA
                   AAPL       KO       INTC       MRK    TRV     WMT
                   BA         DOW      IBM        MSFT   UNH     DIS


   Selecting only constituents for the analysis with at least 30 years of data, I lose: DOW,
GS, CRM and V.


A.4    Nasdaq 100

The 123 largest stock on the Nasdaq exchange can be found in Table 4. Most stocks are
presented in the S&P500 and can thus be searched by name in Table 2.




                                             60
                                 Table 4: Nasdaq stocks


 Tickers Nasdaq 123

 AAPL     ATVI         COIN      EQIX     GOOGL      LRCX      NTES      ROST      TXN
 ABNB     AVGO         COST      ERIC     HON        LULU      NVDA      SBAC      VOD
 ADBE     AZN          CPRT      EXC      HZNP       MAR       NXPI      SBUX      VRSK
 ADI      BIDU         CRWD      EXPE     IDXX       MCHP      ODFL      SGEN      VRTX
 ADP      BIIB         CSCO      FANG     ILMN       MDB       ORLY      SIRI      WBA
 ADSK     BKNG         CSGP      FAST     INTC       MDLZ      PANW      SIVB      WBD
 AEP      BKR          CSX       FB       INTU       MELI      PAYX      SNPS      WDAY
 ALGN     BNTX         CTAS      FISV     ISRG       MNST      PCAR      SNY       WTW
 AMAT     CCEP         CTSH      FITB     JD         MRNA      PDD       TEAM      XEL
 AMD      CDNS         DDOG      FTNT     KDP        MRVL      PEP       TMUS      ZM
 AMGN     CERN         DLTR      GFS      KHC        MSFT      PYPL      TROW      ZS
 AMZN     CHTR         DXCM      GILD     KLAC       MU        QCOM      TSCO
 ANSS     CMCSA        EA        GMAB     LCID       NDAQ      REGN      TSLA
 ASML     CME          EBAY      GOOG     LI         NFLX      RIVN      TTD


   Selecting only constituents for the analysis which meet the criteria, I lose 21 stocks:
PYPL, ABNB, JD, TEAM, MRNA, KHC, WDAY, CRWD, PDD, DDOG, BNTX, COIN,
LCID, RIVN, ZM, ZS, TTD, GFS, MDB, FANG and LI.


A.5     Robustness test

For this analysis I (can) only use a small sample of stocks. Figure 5 and Figure 6 use the
ten following stocks: AAPL, TSLA, AMZN, MSFT, PFE, NVDA, GOOGL, VZ, F and
WFC. Figure 7 uses the following stocks in addition to the previous named stocks: CVX,
DIS, CAT, CCL, WMT, IBM, JNJ, MS, PG and CSCO.




                                           61
Appendix B         Preliminary Results

B.1   ETFs

                     Table 5: Sample periods ETFs


                                        Sample Period
             ETF    Tracking            From         To

             DIA    Dow 30              20-01-1998   19-04-2022
             IWM    Russell 2000        29-12-2000   19-04-2022
             MDY    S&P400 Midcap       04-05-1995   19-04-2022
             QQQ    Nasdaq 100          10-03-1999   19-04-2022
             SPY    S&P500              02-01-1996   19-04-2022



               Figure 19: Difference in return for ETFs (1)




                     Notes. Eight year rolling window




                                   62
Figure 20: Difference in return for ETFs (2)




      Notes. Eight year rolling window




                    63
B.2   Dow Jones Industrial Average

             Figure 21: Difference in return by sorting on CTOt




             Notes. Twelve year rolling window, sorted on five years


                                       64
Figure 22: Difference in return for 3 sorts on different values of upside close-to-close
volatility yesterday




                             Notes. Five year rolling window



                                           65
B.3     Nasdaq 102

Figure 23: Difference in return for 3 sorts on different values of upside close-to-close
volatility yesterday




                                           67

                             Notes. Five year rolling window
Figure 24: Difference in return for 6 sorts on different values of upside close-to-close
volatility yesterday




                             Notes. Five year rolling window



                                           68
Figure 25: Difference in return for 6 sorts on different values of upside close-to-close
volatility yesterday




                             Notes. Five year rolling window



                                           69
Figure 26: Day return for 3 sorts on different values of upside close-to-close volatility
yesterday




                             Notes. Five year rolling window
                                           70
Figure 27: Night return for 3 sorts on different values of upside close-to-close volatility
yesterday




                              Notes. Five year rolling window
                                            71
Figure 28: Difference in return sorted on institutional ownership with confidence bounds




                             Notes. Five year rolling window




                                           72
Appendix C               Additional tables and figures

Table 6: Estimates of the standard base specification for the period 4 January 1993 - 3
August 2022

                    δ         µD        µN              π11        π12        π21        π22
   AAPL        0.0375    -0.0159     0.0892          -0.0632    0.0591    -0.0113     0.0045
              (0.0151)   (0.0261)   (0.0201)        (0.0116)   (0.0151)   (0.0089)   (0.0116)
  AMGN         0.1172    -0.0091     0.0598          -0.0228    0.0384    -0.0465    -0.0277
              (0.0182)   (0.0213)   (0.0136)        (0.0116)   (0.0182)   (0.0074)   (0.0116)
    AXP       -0.0777     0.0179     0.0250          -0.0507    0.0096    -0.0118    -0.0497
              (0.0186)   (0.0213)   (0.0133)        (0.0116)   (0.0186)   (0.0072)   (0.0116)
   CSCO        0.0242    -0.0110     0.0631          -0.0681    0.0040     0.0179    -0.0307
              (0.0175)   (0.0244)   (0.0161)        (0.0116)   (0.0175)   (0.0076)   (0.0116)
    CVX       -0.1066     0.0061     0.0230          -0.0689   -0.0237    -0.0175     -0.0435
              (0.0182)   (0.0161)   (0.0102)        (0.0116)   (0.0183)   (0.0073)   (0.0116)
     HD        0.0123     0.0206     0.0268          0.0108     -0.0764    0.0174    -0.0126
              (0.0178)   (0.0190)   (0.0124)        (0.0116)   (0.0178)   (0.0075)   (0.0116)
    HON        0.0510     0.0015     0.0371          -0.0078    -0.0350    0.0161    -0.0140
              (0.0176)   (0.0188)   (0.0123)        (0.0116)   (0.0176)   (0.0076)   (0.0116)
    IBM       -0.0251     0.0380     -0.0036        -0.0389     0.0537    -0.0039     -0.0652
              (0.0165)   (0.0166)   (0.0116)        (0.0116)   (0.0165)   (0.0081)   (0.0116)
   INTC       -0.0051     0.0006     0.0330          -0.0687    0.0364    -0.0107      -0.050
              (0.0158)   (0.0222)   (0.0163)        (0.0116)   (0.0158)   (0.0085)   (0.0116)
     JNJ       0.0637     0.0282     0.0092          -0.0177   -0.0221     0.0059    -0.0042
              (0.0187)   (0.0133)   (0.0082)        (0.0116)   (0.0187)   (0.0072)   (0.0116)
    JPM       -0.0144    -0.0007     0.0317          -0.0740   -0.0033     0.0124     -0.0668
              (0.0179)   (0.0225)   (0.0145)        (0.0116)   (0.0179)   (0.0075)   (0.0116)
   MCD         0.0982     0.0438     -0.0007         -0.0319   -0.0193    -0.0186     0.0080
              (0.0182)   (0.0151)   (0.0096)        (0.0116)   (0.0182)   (0.0074)   (0.0116)
   MMM        -0.0142     0.0146     0.0097          -0.0124   -0.0030    -0.0333     -0.0277
              (0.0190)   (0.0147)   (0.0090)        (0.0116)   (0.0189)   (0.0071)   (0.0116)
   MRK         0.0041     0.0282     -0.0086         -0.0048   -0.0346    -0.0001     -0.0038
              (0.0172)   (0.0165)   (0.0111)        (0.0116)   (0.0172)   (0.0078)   (0.0116)
  MSFT        -0.0370     0.0263     0.0374          -0.0679    0.0137    -0.0092    -0.0397
              (0.0172)   (0.0188)   (0.0126)        (0.0116)   (0.0172)   (0.0078)   (0.0116)
    NKE        0.0295     0.0483     0.0026          0.0134    -0.0320    -0.0040    -0.0234
              (0.0175)   (0.0196)   (0.0129)        (0.0116)   (0.0175)   (0.0077)   (0.0116)
     PG        0.0869     0.0798    -0.0450          -0.0477    0.0329    -0.0351    -0.0330
              (0.0166)   (0.0139)   (0.0097)        (0.0116)   (0.0166)   (0.0081)   (0.0116)
    TRV        0.0843     0.0228     0.0089         -0.0583     -0.0973    -0.0223   -0.0466
              (0.0203)   (0.0182)   (0.0104)        (0.0116)   (0.0203)   (0.0066)   (0.0116)
    UNH       -0.0295     0.0270     0.0413          0.0172    -0.0421    -0.0040    -0.0190
              (0.0193)   (0.0220)   (0.0132)        (0.0116)   (0.0193)   (0.0070)   (0.0116)
      VZ       0.0423     0.0078     0.0019          -0.0364   -0.0439    -0.0150     0.0012
              (0.0203)   (0.0157)   (0.0090)        (0.0116)   (0.0203)   (0.0066)   (0.0116)
   WBA         0.0802     0.0409     -0.0140         -0.0262   -0.0097    -0.0188     -0.0203
              (0.0191)   (0.0185)   (0.0112)        (0.0116)   (0.0191)   (0.0070)   (0.0116)
   WMT         0.0697     0.0043     0.0262          -0.0348    0.0069    -0.0099     0.0021
              (0.0189)   (0.0163)   (0.0100)        (0.0116)   (0.0189)   (0.0071)   (0.0116)
  average      0.0012     0.0181     0.0200    74    -0.0319    -0.0039   -0.0069    -0.0243
Table 7: Estimates of the adjusted base specification for the period 18 May 2020 - 10 May
2022

                  δ        µD         µN         π11             π12        π21        π22         ξD         ξN
  AAPL       0.0126     0.1162     -0.0288   -0.0420         -0.0805     0.0140     -0.1513    -0.0928    0.1819
            (0.0640)   (0.1073)   (0.0755)   (0.0705)        (0.0893)   (0.0496)   (0.0625)   (0.1109)   (0.0776)
 AMGN        0.1176    -0.0067     0.0032    -0.0068         -0.0391     -0.0645    0.0811     -0.0071    0.0366
            (0.0697)   (0.0816)   (0.0527)   (0.0741)        (0.0851)   (0.0477)   (0.0548)   (0.1118)   (0.0722)
   AXP      -0.0905     0.0870     0.0424     0.0525          0.2230    -0.0096     -0.1489    -0.1861    0.1439
            (0.0513)   (0.1026)   (0.0901)   (0.0646)        (0.0813)   (0.0567)   (0.0711)   (0.0954)   (0.0836)
  CSCO       0.1077     0.0454     -0.0442   -0.1035          0.0466     -0.0665    0.0129     0.0465     0.0005
            (0.0532)   (0.0769)   (0.0651)   (0.0658)        (0.0677)   (0.0556)   (0.0573)   (0.1021)   (0.0864)
   CVX       0.0137    -0.0111     0.0778    -0.1357          0.0092     0.0677     -0.0197    0.0812     -0.0211
            (0.0518)   (0.1030)   (0.0895)   (0.0692)        (0.0759)   (0.0601)   (0.0660)   (0.1028)   (0.0894)
    HD       0.0401     0.1476     0.0732     0.0601          0.2502     0.0507     0.0070    -0.2699     -0.0608
            (0.0761)   (0.0883)   (0.0522)   (0.0686)        (0.0880)   (0.0405)   (0.0521)   (0.1189)   (0.0704)
   HON       0.1213    -0.0664     0.0188    -0.0968          0.0401     0.0171     -0.1088    0.0998     0.1222
            (0.0555)   (0.0838)   (0.0680)   (0.0661)        (0.0794)   (0.0536)   (0.0642)   (0.1087)   (0.0880)
   IBM      -0.0843    -0.0121     0.0243    -0.0475          0.0954     -0.0040    -0.0892   -0.0074     0.0186
            (0.0562)   (0.0762)   (0.0611)   (0.0646)        (0.0669)   (0.0518)   (0.0534)   (0.0960)   (0.0769)
  INTC      -0.0052     0.2093     -0.0082    0.0880          0.1334     -0.0591    0.0513     -0.3767    -0.0082
            (0.0487)   (0.1005)   (0.0931)   (0.0629)        (0.0545)   (0.0582)   (0.0504)   (0.0980)   (0.0907)
    JNJ      0.1952    -0.0002     0.0021    -0.0393         -0.0344     -0.1242    -0.0887    0.0026     0.1139
            (0.0659)   (0.0618)   (0.0423)   (0.0741)        (0.0901)   (0.0504)   (0.0614)   (0.1192)   (0.0813)
   JPM       0.0137     0.0027     0.0621    -0.0165          0.1114     0.0475    -0.0513     -0.1124    0.0905
            (0.0471)   (0.0894)   (0.0854)   (0.0682)        (0.0729)   (0.0651)   (0.0696)   (0.0978)   (0.0934)
  MCD        0.2382     0.0592     0.1155     0.0137          0.2044     0.0275    -0.0457     -0.1568    -0.0922
            (0.0665)   (0.0667)   (0.0449)   (0.0766)        (0.0873)   (0.0518)   (0.0591)   (0.1191)   (0.0805)
  MMM        0.0875    -0.1076     0.0578    -0.1260          0.0614     0.0133     -0.0664    0.1113     -0.0161
            (0.0668)   (0.0795)   (0.0535)   (0.0694)        (0.0807)   (0.0468)   (0.0543)   (0.1142)   (0.0770)
  MRK        0.0572    -0.0866     0.0775    -0.0863          -0.1586    -0.0158    0.1250     0.1091     -0.0106
            (0.0534)   (0.0668)   (0.0562)   (0.0653)        (0.0698)    (0.055)   (0.0585)   (0.0956)   (0.0806)
  MSFT      -0.0229     0.0770     -0.0245   -0.1117          0.0415     -0.0718    -0.0990    -0.0966    0.1369
            (0.0664)   (0.0954)   (0.0647)   (0.0689)        (0.0870)   (0.0466)   (0.0589)   (0.1121)   (0.0758)
   NKE       0.0359    -0.0650     0.1284    -0.0127          0.0904     0.0170     -0.0791    -0.0678    0.0290
            (0.0479)   (0.0899)   (0.0843)   (0.0631)        (0.0766)   (0.0593)   (0.0720)   (0.0972)   (0.0914)
    PG       0.2776    -0.0148     0.0502    -0.1644         -0.1319     -0.0456    -0.0044    0.1524     -0.0397
            (0.0863)    (0.066)   (0.0344)   (0.0761)        (0.1102)   (0.0397)   (0.0575)   (0.1281)   (0.0669)
   TRV       0.1320     -0.1412    -0.0084    -0.1686         -0.0037   -0.1294    -0.2026     0.2584     0.2058
            (0.0636)   (0.0922)   (0.0653)   (0.0736)        (0.0884)   (0.0518)   (0.0620)   (0.1150)   (0.0810)
   UNH       0.1955     0.1063     -0.0279    0.0544          0.1672    -0.1045     -0.1811    -0.1162    0.1910
            (0.0661)   (0.0845)   (0.0575)   (0.0781)        (0.0936)   (0.0530)   (0.0632)   (0.1175)   (0.0795)
       VZ    0.0290    -0.0105     0.0130     0.0322          0.2361    -0.0085     -0.0085    -0.0729    -0.0082
            (0.0795)   (0.0559)   (0.0317)   (0.0679)        (0.0929)   (0.0385)   (0.0526)   (0.1090)   (0.0618)
  WBA       -0.0930    -0.0043    -0.0131     0.0336          0.1845     -0.0072    -0.1641   -0.0316     0.0716
            (0.0798)   (0.1115)   (0.0629)   (0.0748)        (0.0932)   (0.0422)   (0.0521)   (0.1116)   (0.0629)
  WMT        0.0804     0.0802     -0.0412    0.0639          0.1493    -0.0879     -0.1002    -0.1839    0.1769
            (0.0785)   (0.0693)   (0.0397)   (0.0817)        (0.0948)   (0.0467)   (0.0542)   (0.1192)   (0.0679)
 average     0.0613     0.0016     0.0301     -0.0401         0.0732    -0.0170    -0.0687     -0.0351    0.0588



                                                        75
Table 8: Estimates of the adjusted base specification for the period 4 January 1993 - 3
August 2022

                 δ        µD         µN         π11             π12        π21        π22         ξD         ξN
  AAPL      0.0367     0.0464     0.0589    -0.0293          0.0866    -0.0277     -0.0089    -0.0667    0.0324
           (0.0151)   (0.0350)   (0.0269)   (0.0172)        (0.0182)   (0.0132)   (0.0140)   (0.0250)   (0.0193)
 AMGN       0.1171    -0.0059     0.0204    -0.0205          0.0408    -0.0743     -0.0569    -0.0045    0.0546
           (0.0182)   (0.0293)   (0.0186)   (0.0184)        (0.0235)   (0.0117)   (0.0150)   (0.0278)   (0.0177)
   AXP     -0.0776    -0.0037     0.0234    -0.0657          -0.0053    -0.0128    -0.0508    0.0296     0.0021
           (0.0186)   (0.0283)   (0.0176)   (0.0173)        (0.0226)   (0.0108)   (0.0141)   (0.0255)   (0.0159)
  CSCO      0.0241    -0.0073     0.0291    -0.0660          0.0062     -0.0020    -0.0504    -0.0044    0.0404
           (0.0175)   (0.0329)   (0.0217)   (0.0174)        (0.0217)   (0.0115)   (0.0143)   (0.0263)   (0.0174)
   CVX     -0.1072    -0.0504     0.0317    -0.1171          -0.0674    -0.0102    -0.0368    0.0960    -0.0146
           (0.0182)   (0.0223)   (0.0142)   (0.0175)        (0.0218)   (0.0111)   (0.0139)   (0.0261)   (0.0166)
    HD      0.0121     0.0080     0.0466     0.0011          -0.0843    0.0326    -0.0003     0.0190     -0.0297
           (0.0178)   (0.0261)   (0.0170)   (0.0180)        (0.0210)   (0.0117)   (0.0137)   (0.0269)   (0.0175)
   HON      0.0503    -0.0341     0.0572    -0.0352          -0.0611    0.0316     0.0007     0.0554     -0.0312
           (0.0176)   (0.0254)   (0.0167)   (0.0176)        (0.0216)   (0.0116)   (0.0142)   (0.0266)   (0.0175)
   IBM     -0.0246     0.0216    -0.0305    -0.0532          0.0407     -0.0274    -0.0865    0.0274     0.0450
           (0.0165)   (0.0226)   (0.0158)   (0.0177)        (0.0205)   (0.0124)   (0.0144)   (0.0257)   (0.0180)
  INTC     -0.0053     0.0257     0.0184    -0.0531          0.0489     -0.0198    -0.0573    -0.0302    0.0176
           (0.0158)   (0.0310)   (0.0228)   (0.0177)        (0.0191)   (0.0130)   (0.0140)   (0.0261)   (0.0191)
    JNJ     0.0635    -0.0084     0.0122    -0.0591         -0.0596     0.0093     -0.0010    0.0800    -0.0067
           (0.0187)   (0.0184)   (0.0114)   (0.0185)        (0.0228)   (0.0114)   (0.0141)   (0.0277)   (0.0172)
   JPM     -0.0147    -0.0672     0.0360    -0.1204          -0.0472    0.0154     -0.0639    0.0882    -0.0058
           (0.0179)   (0.0295)   (0.0191)   (0.0177)        (0.0219)   (0.0114)   (0.0142)   (0.0254)   (0.0164)
  MCD       0.0974     0.0121     0.0151    -0.0635          -0.0492    -0.0028    0.0229     0.0613     -0.0305
           (0.0182)   (0.0208)   (0.0133)   (0.0184)        (0.0227)   (0.0118)   (0.0145)   (0.0277)   (0.0177)
  MMM      -0.0144     0.0081     0.0217    -0.0186         -0.0089     -0.0219    -0.0168    0.0125    -0.0232
           (0.0190)   (0.0204)   (0.0124)   (0.0178)        (0.0229)   (0.0109)   (0.0140)   (0.0273)   (0.0167)
  MRK       0.0043    -0.0006    -0.0153     -0.0297         -0.0536    -0.0059    -0.0083    0.0491     0.0116
           (0.0172)   (0.0228)   (0.0153)   (0.0179)        (0.0201)   (0.0120)   (0.0135)   (0.0268)   (0.0180)
  MSFT     -0.0369     0.0101     0.0318    -0.0802          0.0022     -0.0135    -0.0437    0.0236     0.0082
           (0.0172)   (0.0260)   (0.0175)   (0.0179)        (0.0214)   (0.0121)   (0.0144)   (0.0263)   (0.0177)
   NKE      0.0291     0.0274     0.0254    -0.0028          -0.0471    0.0136     -0.0069    0.0307     -0.0335
           (0.0175)   (0.0266)   (0.0176)   (0.0181)        (0.0219)   (0.0120)   (0.0145)   (0.0266)   (0.0176)
    PG      0.0853     0.0573    -0.0056    -0.0722          0.0154     0.0077     -0.0024    0.0486     -0.0849
           (0.0166)   (0.0186)   (0.0130)   (0.0177)        (0.0192)   (0.0124)   (0.0134)   (0.0267)   (0.0186)
   TRV      0.0881     -0.0639   -0.0170    -0.1338          -0.1703   -0.0448    -0.0684     0.1495     0.0448
           (0.0203)   (0.0239)   (0.0137)   (0.0178)        (0.0242)   (0.0102)   (0.0138)   (0.0269)   (0.0154)
   UNH     -0.0295     0.0277    -0.0059     0.0177         -0.0417     -0.0357    -0.0441    -0.0010    0.0644
           (0.0193)   (0.0292)   (0.0176)   (0.0174)        (0.0218)   (0.0104)   (0.0131)   (0.0263)   (0.0158)
     VZ     0.0423     0.0060     0.0183    -0.0381          -0.0454    0.0008     0.0153     0.0032     -0.0303
           (0.0203)   (0.0220)   (0.0126)   (0.0189)        (0.0243)   (0.0108)   (0.0139)   (0.0286)   (0.0163)
  WBA       0.0800     0.0256    -0.0003    -0.0385          -0.0206    -0.0078    -0.0105    0.0241    -0.0215
           (0.0191)   (0.0258)   (0.0157)   (0.0185)        (0.0231)   (0.0112)   (0.0140)   (0.0284)   (0.0172)
  WMT       0.0693     0.0168     0.0045    -0.0231          0.0179    -0.0302     -0.0170    -0.0225    0.0389
           (0.0189)   (0.0225)   (0.0138)   (0.0186)        (0.0233)   (0.0114)   (0.0143)   (0.0278)   (0.0170)
 average    0.0009     0.0064     0.0157    -0.0426          -0.0138   -0.0088     -0.0264    0.0208     0.0038



                                                       76
Table 9: Estimates of the intraday dynamic (short run) parameters in the coupled com-
ponent model

                  ωD          βD         γD               ∗
                                                         γD         ρD         ρ∗D        νD
  AAPL         0.5120     0.9224     0.0445          -0.0090    0.0379     -0.0095    8.9697
            (0.0178)     (0.0098)   (0.0040)        (0.0023)   (0.0049)   (0.0027)   (0.7261)
  AMGN         0.3015     0.9401     0.0433          -0.0062    0.0413     -0.0006    7.9214
            (0.0201)     (0.0073)   (0.0037)        (0.0022)   (0.0047)   (0.0025)   (0.5848)
    AXP        0.2427     0.9505     0.0453          -0.0117    0.0393     -0.0161    9.6933
            (0.0225)      (0.005)   (0.0035)        (0.0021)   (0.0039)   (0.0025)   (0.8454)
   CSCO        0.3771     0.9476     0.0398          -0.0098    0.0388     -0.0177   10.9149
            (0.0202)     (0.0054)   (0.0033)        (0.0021)   (0.0040)   (0.0024)   (0.9721)
    CVX        0.1010     0.9566     0.0393          -0.0087    0.0319     -0.0143   12.2095
            (0.0222)     (0.0047)   (0.0032)        (0.0020)   (0.0036)   (0.0023)   (1.3019)
     HD        0.2088     0.9405     0.0424          -0.0104    0.0442     -0.0165    8.9748
            (0.0200)     (0.0066)   (0.0037)        (0.0023)   (0.0045)   (0.0027)   (0.7057)
    HON        0.1458     0.9316     0.0457          -0.0140    0.0504     -0.0149    8.2666
            (0.0196)     (0.0071)   (0.0041)        (0.0024)   (0.0045)   (0.0028)   (0.6201)
    IBM        0.0407     0.9438     0.0420          -0.0058    0.0454     -0.0084    7.3982
            (0.0204)     (0.0067)   (0.0039)        (0.0022)   (0.0047)   (0.0026)   (0.4915)
   INTC        0.4081     0.9601     0.0312          -0.0044    0.0325     -0.0100   12.1822
            (0.0210)     (0.0044)   (0.0028)        (0.0017)   (0.0038)   (0.0022)   (1.2472)
     JNJ       -0.1855    0.9431     0.0462          -0.0037    0.0447     -0.0114    7.1226
            (0.0213)     (0.0059)   (0.0037)        (0.0023)   (0.0043)   (0.0026)   (0.4638)
    JPM        0.2474     0.9610     0.0440          -0.0068    0.0413     -0.0106    7.9424
            (0.0258)     (0.0038)   (0.0035)        (0.0021)   (0.0039)   (0.0023)   (0.5833)
   MCD         -0.0319    0.9259     0.0390          -0.0059    0.0504     -0.0099    7.9088
            (0.0180)     (0.0101)   (0.0044)        (0.0023)   (0.0052)   (0.0028)   (0.5602)
   MMM         -0.0632    0.9509     0.0365          -0.0092    0.0432     -0.0108    6.8735
            (0.0207)     (0.0056)   (0.0036)        (0.0022)   (0.0045)   (0.0026)   (0.4265)
   MRK         0.0681     0.9253     0.0457          -0.0032    0.0453     -0.0108    6.8977
            (0.0183)     (0.0107)   (0.0045)        (0.0026)   (0.0053)   (0.0028)   (0.4164)
  MSFT         0.2224     0.9417     0.0435          -0.0041    0.0541     -0.0095   10.5668
            (0.0211)     (0.0062)   (0.0036)        (0.0021)   (0.0047)   (0.0025)   (0.9601)
    NKE        0.2109     0.9490     0.0388          -0.0057    0.0373     -0.0080    7.1371
            (0.0203)     (0.0066)   (0.0038)        (0.0023)   (0.0047)   (0.0025)   (0.4686)
     PG        -0.1294    0.9369     0.0431          -0.0044    0.0421     -0.0141    7.9902
            (0.0194)     (0.0074)   (0.0038)        (0.0023)   (0.0044)   (0.0027)   (0.5637)
    TRV        0.0780     0.9375     0.0514         -0.0068     0.0509     -0.0135    8.0345
            (0.0215)     (0.0070)   (0.0042)        (0.0025)   (0.0049)   (0.0027)   (0.5940)
    UNH        0.3059     0.9455     0.0430          -0.0046    0.0405     -0.0121    6.9643
            (0.0207)     (0.0070)   (0.0038)        (0.0024)   (0.0048)   (0.0027)   (0.4471)
      VZ       0.0316     0.9440     0.0338          -0.0056    0.0401     -0.0157    9.6899
            (0.0188)     (0.0068)   (0.0035)        (0.0021)   (0.0042)   (0.0025)   (0.8191)
   WBA         0.2059     0.9296     0.0370          -0.0059    0.0527     -0.0092    7.1348
            (0.0183)     (0.0109)   (0.0043)        (0.0025)   (0.0055)   (0.0028)   (0.4771)
   WMT         0.0037     0.9448     0.0387          -0.0022    0.0381     -0.0129    7.5265
            (0.0197)     (0.0072)   (0.0036)        (0.0021)   (0.0044)   (0.0026)   (0.5068)
  average      0.1458     0.9457     0.0413          -0.0066    0.0424     -0.0118    8.4471



                                               77
Table 10: Estimates of the overnight dynamic (short run) parameters in the coupled
component model

                ωN          βN         γN               ∗
                                                       γN         ρN         ρ∗N        νN
  AAPL      -0.3529     0.9130     0.0668          -0.0163    0.0722    -0.0147     2.7968
            (0.0215)   (0.0088)   (0.0067)        (0.0037)   (0.0052)   (0.0032)   (0.0824)
  AMGN      -0.6651     0.9442     0.0464          -0.0085    0.0492    -0.0114     2.9895
            (0.0224)   (0.0061)   (0.0050)        (0.0028)   (0.0043)   (0.0025)   (0.0941)
    AXP     -0.5432     0.9604     0.0453          -0.0227    0.0419    -0.0171     3.8124
            (0.0263)   (0.0036)   (0.0042)        (0.0027)   (0.0036)   (0.0023)   (0.1517)
  CSCO      -0.4062     0.9515     0.0429          -0.0177    0.0420    -0.0156     3.2009
            (0.0226)   (0.0051)   (0.0046)        (0.0026)   (0.0038)   (0.0025)   (0.1036)
    CVX     -0.6673     0.9704     0.0332          -0.0141    0.0293    -0.0085     4.2939
            (0.0257)   (0.0029)   (0.0034)        (0.0021)   (0.0029)   (0.0018)   (0.1947)
     HD     -0.6194     0.9471     0.0563          -0.0228    0.0407    -0.0135     3.2386
            (0.0239)   (0.0054)   (0.0049)        (0.0031)   (0.0040)   (0.0028)   (0.1158)
    HON     -0.6042     0.9535     0.0511          -0.0221    0.0402    -0.0169     3.4149
            (0.0246)   (0.0046)   (0.0045)        (0.0028)   (0.0040)   (0.0026)   (0.1251)
    IBM     -0.7911     0.9561     0.0529          -0.0149    0.0391    -0.0152     2.7288
            (0.0254)   (0.0046)   (0.0050)        (0.0028)   (0.0040)   (0.0025)   (0.0825)
   INTC     -0.4058     0.9522     0.0426          -0.0154    0.0366    -0.0091     2.9076
            (0.0222)   (0.0070)   (0.0056)        (0.0030)   (0.0041)   (0.0023)   (0.0886)
     JNJ    -0.8996     0.9553     0.0411          -0.0169    0.0404    -0.0141     3.8619
            (0.0231)   (0.0047)   (0.0042)        (0.0026)   (0.0038)   (0.0024)   (0.1558)
    JPM     -0.4007     0.9645     0.0431          -0.0230    0.0382    -0.0120     4.0353
            (0.0266)   (0.0032)   (0.0040)        (0.0023)   (0.0036)   (0.0021)   (0.1655)
   MCD      -0.7882     0.9450     0.0458          -0.0182    0.0428    -0.0146     3.3642
            (0.0218)   (0.0057)   (0.0047)        (0.0029)   (0.0042)   (0.0025)   (0.1198)
   MMM      -0.8937     0.9618     0.0432          -0.0122    0.0377    -0.0131     3.0316
            (0.0255)   (0.0040)   (0.0043)        (0.0028)   (0.0040)   (0.0024)   (0.1051)
   MRK      -0.7276     0.9410     0.0492          -0.0147    0.0484    -0.0127     3.0998
            (0.0221)   (0.0072)   (0.0052)        (0.0030)   (0.0047)   (0.0027)   (0.1055)
  MSFT      -0.6351     0.9395     0.0615          -0.0127    0.0497    -0.0059     3.0077
            (0.0235)   (0.0066)   (0.0057)        (0.0031)   (0.0043)   (0.0026)   (0.0933)
    NKE     -0.7892     0.9421     0.0482          -0.0215    0.0500    -0.0130     2.3774
            (0.0225)   (0.0068)   (0.0055)        (0.0032)   (0.0048)   (0.0030)   (0.0675)
     PG     -0.9665     0.9423     0.0389          -0.0218    0.0431    -0.0133     3.3955
            (0.0204)   (0.0059)   (0.0045)        (0.0028)   (0.0041)   (0.0026)   (0.1217)
    TRV      -0.8770    0.9595     0.0532         -0.0176     0.0423     -0.0110    3.0239
            (0.0273)   (0.0043)   (0.0050)        (0.0028)   (0.0040)   (0.0024)   (0.1012)
    UNH     -0.7343     0.9411     0.0583          -0.0152    0.0540    -0.0108     2.4406
            (0.0244)   (0.0066)   (0.0059)        (0.0034)   (0.0049)   (0.0031)   (0.0734)
      VZ    -0.8247     0.9546     0.0460          -0.0207    0.0378    -0.0067     3.3764
            (0.0237)   (0.0049)   (0.0048)        (0.0028)   (0.0037)   (0.0024)   (0.1237)
   WBA      -0.7554     0.9444     0.0524          -0.0191    0.0347    -0.0132     2.9146
            (0.0221)   (0.0064)   (0.0052)        (0.0031)   (0.0042)   (0.0026)   (0.0933)
   WMT      -0.8219     0.9548     0.0359          -0.0140    0.0386    -0.0078     3.1159
            (0.0218)   (0.0053)   (0.0046)        (0.0026)   (0.0037)   (0.0023)   (0.1040)
  average    -2.3158    0.9534     0.0538          -0.0172    0.0431    -0.0111     2.9224



                                             78
Table 11: P-values of several Wald tests for equivalence of intraday and overnight param-
eters

                                                                                        ∗
                                                                            (βD , γD , γD , ρD , ρ∗D )
                                  ∗    ∗
         ωD = ωN βD = βN γD = γN γD = γN ρD = ρN ρ∗D = ρ∗N νD = νN = (βN , γN , γN
                                                                                 ∗
                                                                                   , ρN , ρ∗N )
 AAPL      0.0000    0.0383   0.0002   0.0602    0.6333   0.4958   0.0000                     0.0004
AMGN       0.0000    0.0135   0.0847   0.4483    0.5638   0.9770   0.0000                     0.0712
  AXP      0.0000    0.0038   0.3198   0.4366    0.6111   0.7747   0.0000                     0.0174
 CSCO      0.0000    0.4678   0.0687   0.4818    0.7708   0.9134   0.0000                     0.5013
  CVX      0.0000    0.0005   0.8338   0.8613    0.3071   0.5348   0.0000                     0.0000
    HD     0.0000    0.0214   0.0823   0.2431    0.4522   0.8383   0.0000                     0.0388
  HON      0.0000    0.0000   0.6198   0.5625    0.4696   0.8084   0.0000                     0.0000
   IBM     0.0000    0.0000   0.1462   0.4487    0.3018   0.9004   0.0000                     0.0000
  INTC     0.0011    0.0000   0.0001   0.0782    0.6772   0.9067   0.0000                     0.0000
   JNJ     0.0000    0.0104   0.5033   0.6873    0.4442   0.7145   0.0000                     0.0195
  JPM      0.0178    0.1913   0.4605   0.7202    0.6614   0.8045   0.0000                     0.6930
  MCD      0.0000    0.0000   0.6827   0.4688    0.1335   0.7570   0.0000                     0.0000
 MMM       0.0000    0.0014   0.3625   0.4237    0.4467   0.7678   0.0000                     0.0005
  MRK      0.0000    0.0000   0.3137   0.5681    0.3690   0.9049   0.0000                     0.0000
 MSFT      0.0000    0.3791   0.0031   0.1797    0.5895   0.9612   0.0000                     0.0004
  NKE      0.0000    0.6250   0.0138   0.1773    0.8798   0.4279   0.0000                     0.0055
    PG     0.0158    0.0021   0.2876   0.4449    0.5844   0.8589   0.0000                     0.0037
  TRV      0.0000    0.0000   0.2641   0.6783    0.1740   0.6906   0.0000                     0.0000
  UNH      0.0000    0.3858   0.0032   0.1498    0.8052   0.5753   0.0000                     0.0186
    VZ     0.0000    0.0002   0.0662   0.3118    0.4195   0.9303   0.0000                     0.0002
  WBA      0.0000    0.0000   0.2483   0.3740    0.0446   0.8408   0.0000                     0.0000
 WMT       0.0000    0.0002   0.1928   0.4695    0.3049   0.6820   0.0000                     0.0000




                                                79
Figure 29: Intraday innovations from the standard base specification plotted against
intraday innovations from the adjusted base specification.




                                           80
Figure 30: Overnight innovations from the standard base specification plotted against
overnight innovations from the adjusted base specification.




                                           81
Figure 31: The long run component σ k (·), for k ∈ {D, N }, of the coupled component
model. The three vertical lines represent the following crises: dot-com bubble (10 March
2000), financial crisis (16 September 2008) and the corona crisis (9 March 2020).




                                           82
Figure 32: The ratio of overnight to intraday volatility, where volatility is measured as
r               h                  i
     νk                            t
    νk −2
          exp       2λkt + 2σtk    T
                                         , of the coupled component model. The three vertical lines rep-
resent the following crises: dot-com bubble (10 March 2000), financial crisis (16 September
2008) and the corona crisis (9 March 2020).




                                                          83
                                                                  r               h                  i
                                                                       νk                            t
Figure 33: Total intraday and overnight volatility, measured as       νk −2
                                                                            exp       2λkt + 2σtk    T
                                                                                                           ,
of the coupled component model. The three vertical lines represent the following crises:
dot-com bubble (10 March 2000), financial crisis (16 September 2008) and the corona
crisis (9 March 2020).




                                            84
Figure 34: T-statistics of the constancy of ratio test of the coupled component model.
The horizontal lines represent the 95% confidence intervals.




                                           85
Figure 35: The long run component λk1,t , for k ∈ {D, N }, of the two component model.
The three vertical lines represent the following crises: dot-com bubble (10 March 2000),
financial crisis (16 September 2008) and the corona crisis (9 March 2020).




                                           86
Figure 36: The ratio of overnight to intraday volatility, where volatility is measured as
r               h                     i
     νk
    νk −2
          exp       2ωk + 2λk1,t + 2λk2,t , of the two component model. The three vertical lines rep-
resent the following crises: dot-com bubble (10 March 2000), financial crisis (16 September
2008) and the corona crisis (9 March 2020).




                                                     87
Figure          37:        Total    intraday   and     overnight   volatility,   measured    as
r               h                    i
     νk
    νk −2
          exp       2ωk + 2λk1,t + 2λk2,t , of the two component model.      The three vertical
lines represent the following crises: dot-com bubble (10 March 2000), financial crisis (16
September 2008) and the corona crisis (9 March 2020).




                                                  88
Appendix D                   Proofs
              K(s)2 I use:
          R
To find

                                                3       
                                      K(s) =       1 − s2 ,
                                                4

with s ∈ {0, 1}. Now compute the integral:
                              Z           Z 
                                             3         2
                                                         
                                      2
                                  K(s) =        1 − s2     ds,
                                             4
                                         Z
                                            9         2
                                       =        1 − s2 ds,
                                            16
                                         Z
                                            9               
                                       =        1 − 2s2 + s4 ds,
                                            16
                                          9 Z               
                                       =        1 − 2s2 + s4 ds,
                                         16 
                                          9       2 3 1 5
                                                             
                                       =      s− s + s .
                                         16       3       5




                                                89
