Staff Working Paper/Document de travail du personnel —
2021-48
Last updated: October 6, 2021




Foreign Exchange Fixings
and Returns Around the
Clock
by Ingomar Krohn,1 Philippe Mueller2 and Paul Whelan3




1
 Financial Markets Department
Bank of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada K1A 0G9
2
    Warwick Business School
    Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK
3
    Copenhagen Business School
    Solbjerg Pl. 3, 2000 Frederiksberg, DK

IKrohn@bank-banque-canada.ca, Philippe.Mueller@wbs.ac.uk, pawh.fi@cbs.dk



Bank of Canada staff working papers provide a forum for staff to publish work-in-progress research independently from
the Bank’s Governing Council. This research may support or challenge prevailing policy orthodoxy. Therefore, the views
expressed in this paper are solely those of the authors and may differ from official Bank of Canada views. No
responsibility for them should be attributed to the Bank.


ISSN 1701-9397                                                                                ©2021 Bank of Canada
Acknowledgements
We would like to thank Benjamin Anderegg, Daniel Andrei, Patrick Augustin, Nick Baltas, Nina
Boyarchenko, Gino Cenedese, Alain Chaboud, Magnus Dahlquist, Pasquale Della Corte, Darrell
Duffie, Peter Feldhütter, Michael Fleming, Lukas Frei, Patrick Green, Farouk Jivjav, Christian
Julliard, Nina Karnaukh, Sven Klingler, David Lando, Dong Lou, Paul Meggyesi, Michael Melvin,
Albert Menkveld, Lasse Pedersen, Tarun Ramadorai, Angelo Ranaldo, Dagfinn Rime, Elvira Sojli,
Gyuri Venter, Tony Zhang, and seminar and conference participants at various universities and
financial institutions. The authors gratefully acknowledge financial support from the Canadian
Derivatives Institute. Ingomar Krohn gratefully acknowledges financial support from the
Economic and Social Research Council, grant no. 1500668. Philippe Mueller gratefully
acknowledges financial support from the Systemic Risk Centre at the LSE. Paul Whelan
gratefully acknowledges financial support from the Danish Council for Independent Research
grant no. 9037-00105B. The views expressed in this paper are solely those of the authors and
do not necessarily reflect the position of the Bank of Canada.




                                               i
Abstract
We document that intraday currency returns display systematic reversals around the major
benchmark fixings, characterized by an appreciation of the U.S. dollar pre-fix and a depreciation
post-fix. We propose an explanation based on constrained intermediation by foreign exchange
dealers. Exploiting data from a major inter-dealer platform, we present evidence of an
unconditional demand for U.S. dollars at currency fixings. Dealers hedge this demand pre-fix,
driving intraday reversals in both over-the-counter and exchange-traded markets.
Furthermore, order imbalances in futures markets are not related to intraday reversal patterns,
suggesting that the marginal investors in foreign exchange markets are intermediaries.

Topics: Financial markets; Exchange Rates; Market structure and pricing

JEL codes: F3, F31, G15




                                                ii
    The foreign exchange market trades continuously on a 24-hour decentralized basis across
the globe in different time zones, from 5:00 a.m. Sydney time on Monday morning until
5:00 p.m. New York time on Friday afternoon. In this paper, we study high-frequency
currency returns around the clock and document a novel intraday return pattern. The U.S.
dollar systematically appreciates against all currencies ahead of the three major currency
fixes in Tokyo, Frankfurt (the ECB fix) and London, and thereafter reverts. In other words,
a portfolio that invests in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar exhibits V -shaped return
patterns around the currency fixes that take place at 9:55 a.m. Tokyo time, 2:15 p.m.
Frankfurt time and 4:00 p.m. London time.
    To establish this fact we construct intraday returns for the G9 currencies for the sample
period from January 1999 until December 2019.1 Consider the dollar portfolio that invests
equal weights in the foreign currencies. After trading in New York ceases and in the run up to
the Tokyo fix, the dollar portfolio depreciates on average by 5.0%, and appreciates thereafter
by 5.3% per annum. That is, during regular Asian trading hours from the end of the day in
New York until the opening of the European markets, the dollar portfolio is approximately
flat on average but displays a large intraday reversal with a turning point marked by the
Tokyo fix. As European markets open, the dollar portfolio again depreciates by 4.2% per
annum until the ECB fix, just to reverse its course again and to appreciate by around 4.6%
from the London fix until the end of the trading day in New York. As in Asian trading
hours, the dollar portfolio remains approximately flat during the European and U.S. trading
hours but displays a distinct reversal pattern around the European fixes in Frankfurt and
London. All the average movements in the dollar portfolio during the respective windows
are highly statistically significant with t-statistics ranging between 4.5 and 11.7.
    On a daily basis, the intraday reversals imply a roughly 2.5 basis point appreciation of
the U.S. dollar before the respective fixes, followed by a depreciation of the same magnitude
   1
     The currencies we study against the U.S. dollar are the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar, the euro, the
British pound, the Japanese yen, the New Zealand dollar, the Norwegian krone, the Swedish krona and the Swiss
franc. These currency pairs cover approximately 75% of daily spot turnover based on data from BIS (2019).




                                                        1
thereafter. This appears small compared to the volatility in foreign exchange markets but
given the size of the spot market alone, this translates into significantly large magnitudes
expressed in U.S. dollar terms. Based on daily turnover numbers from the 2019 Triannual
BIS survey, we estimate that the patterns we detect imply swings that easily exceed a billion
U.S. dollars per day.
    The return patterns for the dollar portfolio are robust across individual currency pairs.
All currencies display V -shaped reversal patterns around Asian and European fixes, respec-
tively, with the Japanese yen being the sole exception to actually depreciate after the London
fix. Moreover, we show that our findings are robust over time and are not driven by day of
the week or month of the year effects, and they are present throughout the sample period.
    Finally, the reversal patterns in the spot market are also present in the over-the-counter
forward as well as the exchange-traded futures markets. This is important because the
presence of a robust intraday seasonality in spot and derivatives markets implies that the
timing of portfolio adjustments should be an important consideration for asset managers,
institutional investors and corporate end users of foreign exchange alike. At the same time,
this is not very surprising if one assumes that no-arbitrage holds in foreign exchange markets.
    We conjecture an explanation for our main empirical finding based on constrained in-
termediation by foreign exchange dealers who provide immediacy for segmented transaction
demand around the clock. Indeed, the structure of the foreign exchange market is such that
a huge amount of volume remains intermediated by a small set of firms acting as marginal
investors.2 This implies that a small number of market participants warehouse the majority
of foreign exchange inventory risk over the course of the day and across different time zones.
    Benchmark microstructure models that study demand for immediacy and inventory risk
(see, e.g., Stoll (1978), Grossman and Miller (1988), and Vayanos (1999, 2001)) provide an
intuitive framework for our explanation. In these models, dealers are needed because buyers
   2
     Data from Euromoney FX Surveys shows that within any given year from 1999 to 2019, between 30% and 60%
of total spot volume is concentrated amongst five banks. In 2019 the top five liquidity providers account for 40%
of total volume but only three of them are banks (JP Morgan, Deutsche Bank and UBS) while two are non-bank
liquidity providers (XTX Markets and HC Tech).



                                                       2
and sellers in financial markets arrive asynchronously, creating transient imbalances between
buy and sell volumes. Dealers act as liquidity suppliers, absorbing imbalances by offering
immediacy to incoming traders and subsequently transacting with counterparties arriving
at later points in the day. A common prediction from these models is that incoming order
imbalances due to heterogeneously timed trades generate price reversal patterns around
“liquidity events” à la Grossman and Miller (1988). We argue that the key times in the day
for these to arise are around the currency fixing times.
       Moreover, we draw an analogy between intraday foreign exchange reversals and price
patterns in the Treasury market around pre-scheduled auction dates as studied by Lou, Yan,
and Zhang (2013), whereby prices of Treasury securities gradually decline in anticipation
of the auction date while recovering thereafter. In the Treasury market, dealers face an
uncertain positive net supply of bonds and hedge their positions by selling ahead of auction
dates. The analogous behavior in currency markets is known as “pre-fix hedging” and
happens on a daily basis, i.e., at a much higher frequency. Banks with advanced knowledge
of order imbalances are explicit in their intentions to hedge and they openly acknowledge that
this practice may have unintended consequences for exchange rates.3 Unlike the situation in
the Treasury market, dealers in the foreign exchange markets can be faced with an excess
demand or supply for U.S. dollars on any given day.
       Drawing from the stylized facts and using our conjectured explanation, we formulate
three testable implications. First, the local peaks in the U.S. dollar imply that there is
excess net demand for U.S. dollars around the fixes on average. Second, an explanation
based on liquidity provision of financially constrained intermediaries implies that we observe
a reversal in the price of the U.S. dollar after a liquidity event, even though on any given
day the net demand for U.S. dollars could be positive or negative. Third, since dealers
and intermediaries are ultimately driving the results, we expect order flow from a dealers’
market to be more informative than order flow from any other market where dealers are not
   3
    The intention to engage in pre-fix hedging is usually part of the client agreement laid out in the “FX Disclosure
Notice.” See, e.g., https://www.db.com/legal-resources/fixed-income-disclosures.



                                                         3
dominant.
    Empirically, we study intraday demand for U.S. dollars by exploiting signed trading vol-
ume in two markets: (i) the Refinitiv FX Matching (RM) inter-dealer platform; and (ii) the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) FX futures market. This allows us to consider infor-
mation from two distinct platforms populated by participants with heterogeneous trading
motives. RM is a platform for inter-dealer trading while trading on CME is more diverse and
features asset managers, leveraged funds and other participants in addition to dealers and
intermediaries.4 For the sample period from 2006 to 2019, we measure order flow defined as
buyer- minus seller-initiated trading volume.
    First, we show that for currencies and time periods where liquidity is high on the RM plat-
form, the unconditional dealer order flow is tilted towards an excess demand for U.S. dollars
before the fixes and excess demand for foreign currencies thereafter.5 For example, before
the London fix, the Australian dollar and British pound each have a median order imbalance
of 20 million U.S. dollars in the direction of dollar demand, thus explaining the unconditional
V -shaped return pattern around the fix. Second, to test for conditional reversals related to
price pressure, we estimate price impact regressions of returns on contemporaneous as well
as lagged order flow. Consistent with our proposed explanation, we show that lagged pre-fix
dealer order flow has a strong negative impact that is highly statistically significant across
time zones and currency pairs, i.e., we find strong evidence for reversals around the fixes
based on price pressure. Interpreting the economic impact, a one-standard deviation shock
to the pre-fix order imbalance results in a post-fix reversal of around 2.5 to 3.5 basis points
depending on the currency. This effect is on par with the magnitude of the unconditional
average daily swings we document over our full sample period.
    We also document evidence that dealer order flow measured using RM data is more infor-
mative for price discovery than futures order flow from CME: (i) For contemporaneous order
    4
      According to data from the commodities futures trading commission (CFTC), dealers and intermediaries usually
account for 20% to 30% of open positions in foreign exchange futures at any given point in time.
    5
      Note that this does not imply an unconditional demand for U.S. dollars when measured over the course of the
full day.


                                                        4
flow taken from either RM or CME, we do indeed find positive and statistically significant
coefficient estimates when running univariate regressions, as predicted by standard models.
However, compared across platforms, the coefficient estimates for the RM order flow are
roughly a magnitude larger compared to the estimates for the CME order flow. Moreover,
dealer order flow from RM largely subsumes the information contained in the futures order
flow once it is added to the CME regressions. (ii) Using CME data, we find no evidence of
a significant relationship between pre-fix futures order flow and subsequent window returns.
At the same time, dealer order flow retains the same sign, and has similar magnitudes and
significance when added to the regressions with CME data, i.e., dealer order flow remains
informative in the context of futures data. (iii) Unconditionally, order flow in the FX futures
market displays no discernible pattern over the course of the day. Taken together, the results
suggest that the order flow from the dealer platform is informative for prices across different
markets. Moreover, the regression results as well as the unconditional patterns in order flow
further support the view that information from electronic dealer markets is more informative
for price discovery than information from the futures market.6
       Finally, we study whether the patterns we document can be exploited using various
trading strategies. First, ignoring transaction costs, we find that the returns to a strategy
that goes long the U.S. dollar before the fix and invests in the foreign currencies thereafter
yields significant returns over time. An initial position of 1 U.S. dollar in 1999 grows to 12
(yen), 9 (euro and dollar portfolio) and 5 (pound) U.S. dollars by 2019, respectively, when
implementing the trading strategy around the Tokyo fix. Around the European fixes (i.e.,
going long the U.S. dollar before the ECB fix combined with a long position in the foreign
currency after the London fix), the trading portfolio grows to 27 (euro), 14 (pound) and 6
(dollar portfolio) U.S. dollars, respectively, while trading the yen around the European fixes
results in a total loss of around 6%. As we argue that the reversals are driven by inventory
risk, it is not very surprising that most of the trading profits disappear when transaction costs
   6
   See, also, BIS (2018) for evidence on the importance of electronic platforms for price discovery in foreign exchange
markets.



                                                          5
are incorporated. Moreover, in line with an explanation based on constrained intermediation,
we also show that reversal returns are high in times of high volatility. Similar to the results
for equity markets documented in Nagel (2012), we find that returns from liquidity provision
are highly predictable using the VIX index.
      In addition to the literature cited above, our paper is related to early work on intraday
patterns in foreign exchange markets (see, e.g., the discussion in Ranaldo (2009)). Ranaldo
(2009) and Breedon and Ranaldo (2013) revisit the early inconclusive evidence and find
that foreign currencies depreciate during local trading hours. Moreover, these authors show
that returns are correlated with order flow, supporting the view that liquidity effects are
important in foreign exchange markets and complementing the transactions hypothesis of
Cornett, Schwarz, and Szakmary (1995).7
      With respect to these papers, our contribution is twofold: First, our granular dissection
allows the identification of price reversals around major currency fixes. Indeed, while it is
true that the U.S. dollar depreciates during U.S. trading hours, the downward drift only
starts after the London fix at 11:00 a.m. ET. Similarly, European currencies depreciate
only until the ECB fix at 2:15 p.m. local time, i.e., a couple of hours before the end of
the local trading day. Additionally, the yen actually appreciates during Asian trading hours
against the U.S. dollar, while the opposite is true during U.S. trading hours. Second, we
provide an explanation for the reversal patterns and argue that unconditional dollar demand
at the fix coupled with pre-hedging activity by foreign exchange dealers is consistent with
the V -shaped return patterns around the fixes.
      Contributions of Evans and Lyons (2002) and Froot and Ramadorai (2005) show that
order flow has powerful explanatory power in exchange rate determination. Complementing
these works, our findings highlight that dealer order flow is more important than order
flow originating from trading activity of speculators and hedgers in the futures market.
Thus, heterogeneity in trading demand matters when linking quantities and prices and it is
  7
    The working paper version of Ranaldo (2009) also argues for a liquidity hypothesis based on the Grossman and
Miller (1988) framework.



                                                       6
important to understand where the marginal investors trade. Consistent with the idea that
dealers are the marginal investors and that they are active on the RM platform, the RM order
flow is driving returns across all markets when measured contemporaneously. Moreover, the
negative loadings on lagged dealer order flow is consistent with the conjecture that their
inventory risk is related to the price reversals around the fixes.
   As we highlight the importance of the fixes for the return patterns, our paper is also
related to a literature in market microstructure studying foreign exchange benchmarks. For
the London fix, Evans (2018) assesses price dynamics in tight windows around the fix in
the context of collusion as suggested by the fixing scandal, while Evans, O’Neill, Rime, and
Saakvitne (2018) show differences in trading behavior across investor types. Unlike these
papers, we consider much longer windows around the fixes and highlight the unconditional
gradual appreciation and subsequent depreciation of the U.S. dollar. Finally, our paper is
also related to Ito and Yamada (2016), who document a structural demand for U.S. dollars
at the Tokyo fix. However, unlike them, we show that U.S. dollar demand coupled with pre-
fix hedging practices manifests itself in a systematic appreciation and depreciation pattern
around both the Tokyo and European fixes tracing out a W -shaped return pattern around
the clock.
   The paper is organized as follows: In Section I we discuss currency fixes before describing
the data in Section II. In Section III we present the central empirical contribution, namely
the unconditional V -shaped return patterns around the fixes along with a series of robustness
tests. In Section IV we examine a potential explanation based on trading imbalances and
dealer hedging practices. Finally, in Section V we study trading strategies designed to exploit
the predictability in intraday reversals and Section VI concludes.


                            I.   Foreign Exchange Fixes

A foreign exchange fix is a pre-set time of day when bids and offers are aggregated and a
reference price is published. Historically, the most popular fixes are the London, ECB and

                                               7
Tokyo fixes. Figure 1 depicts these fixes visually in Eastern Time (ET, the time in New
York) “around the clock.” The colored blocks in Figure 1 show the regular trading hours in
the futures markets of each location. The figure begins at 5:00 p.m. ET which is the end of
the trading day in New York and roughly the beginning of the trading day in Australasia.
The first major currency fix that occurs is Tokyo at 9:55 a.m. local time which is 8:55 p.m.
ET (or 7:55 p.m. depending on daylight saving time (DST)). The red, green and yellow
blocks overlap, meaning that as Japanese trading is closing, European markets are opening.
The beginning of the trading day in New York (we assume 8:00 a.m. for currencies) happens
close to the “ECB fix” at 8:15 a.m. ET (2:15 p.m. local time) but the timing is clearly not
exactly aligned. Moreover, and importantly, the ECB fix is also not aligned with the usual
release time of macro announcements at 8:30 a.m. ET. As we argue later, this distinction
in timing is important when considering intraday price movements in exchange rates. The
final and most important fix of the day is the London fix at 4:00 p.m. local time (or 11:00
a.m. ET).


   17-18 18-19 19-20 20-21 21-22 22-23 23-24 24-01 01-02 02-03 03-04 04-05 05-06 06-07 07-08 08-09 09-10 10-11 11-12 12-13 13-14 14-15 15-16 16-17
                                      Tokyo
                                                                               Frankfurt
                                                                                      London
                                                                                                                  New York



        Pre Tokyo Fix             Post Tokyo Fix                      Pre ECB Fix               Post ECB Fix            Post London Fix



                               Figure 1. Currency Fixes across Time Zones

   While all fixes have an impact on foreign exchange markets, they differ from each other
with respect to institutional characteristics, publication time of reference rates, and the
methodologies to compute fix rates. In what follows, we provide a summary of the institu-
tional characteristics of the three major fixes in currency markets.
   First, the Tokyo fix rates are published at 10:00 a.m. local time, whereby each bank
determines its own individual fix rate for their customers. This is a major difference compared
to the ECB and London fixes, where only one reference rate is published. The rates of the

                                                                          8
Tokyo fix are based on transacted prices, which banks sample from their own customer
transactions at 9:55 a.m. Further, the fixing rate applies not only to pre-fixing but also
to post-fixing customer orders, which are submitted after 10:00 a.m. The Tokyo fixing,
therefore, has far-reaching consequences for banks over the remainder of the trading day
(see, e.g., Ito and Yamada (2016)).
    Second, reference rates from the ECB fix are based on a daily teleconference between
eurozone central banks at 2:15 p.m. CET. The reference rates are the average of quoted
bid and offer prices against the euro, which means that the ECB reference rate is not based
on actual transactions. However, the ECB reference rates are often used by non-financial
corporations in the euro-area that use forward contracts for hedging purposes (see, e.g., FSB
(2014)). To stress that the euro foreign exchange reference rates are for information purposes
only, the ECB has moved the publication of the reference rates to 4:00 p.m. CET in July
2016 while keeping the methodology unchanged (ECB (2019)). Subsequently, the Reuters
2:00 p.m. CET fix was introduced to target corporates who had previously valued, hedged
and settled cross-border transactions using the ECB fix.
    Lastly, the London fix rate is set at 4:00 p.m. London time and published by WM/Reuters.
In contrast to the Tokyo fix, the London fix applies to all banks and is calculated from pre-
fix orders that arrive before 4:00 p.m. The fix rate is then computed based on trades (and
quotes for less-liquid currency pairs) in a window around 4:00 p.m. In a five-minute interval
around the fix (3:57:30 p.m. to 4:02:30 p.m.), traded rates are sourced every second from
major FX platforms and a median trade based on bid and offer rates is calculated from the
pooled sample of trades.8 The London fix is prominently used by various groups of mar-
ket participants to value their international portfolio positions (see, e.g., Melvin and Prins
(2015)).
   8
     Before 15 February 2015, the length of the window to calculate the fix rate was only a one-minute interval from
3:59:30 p.m. to 4:00:30 p.m.




                                                         9
                                               II.     Data

We compile our data from multiple sources including Refinitiv, the CME, Bloomberg and
Datastream. In this section we briefly describe the main data, while we discuss additional
data sources and further details regarding data pre-processing and cleaning in the Online
Appendix. Our full sample starts in January 1999 and ends in December 2019, covering
21 years of high-frequency tick-by-tick data for the G9 currencies, including the Australian
dollar (AUD), the Canadian dollar (CAD), the euro (EUR), the Japanese yen (JPY), the
New Zealand dollar (NZD), the Norwegian krone (NOK), the Swedish krona (SEK), the Swiss
franc (CHF) and the British pound (GBP), all vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar. These currencies
are consistently among the most liquid currencies over the sample period, and together they
account for close to 75% of the total daily turnover in the foreign exchange market based
on calculations using information available from the latest triannual BIS survey (see BIS
(2019)).
      For the sample period from January 1999 to December 2019, we have high-frequency
indicative bid and ask quotes from Refinitiv Tick History (RTH) , which essentially acts as
an aggregator of quotes from individual banks that are available to market participants to
trade “bank-to-client”. From the RTH data, we cannot gauge the volume of transactions or
the price at which transactions are executed even though most transactions in the foreign
exchange market are still executed over-the-counter.
      Starting in June 2006 we also have data from the Refinitiv FX Matching (RM) platform
that provides real-time data on traded prices as well as volumes. Furthermore, the RM data
includes information that allows us to calculate various measures of order flow. Together
with Electronic Broking Services (EBS), RM is the leading inter-dealer platform for foreign
exchange trading with a daily volume for spot transactions exceeding 100 billion U.S. dollars
(compared to around 76 billion U.S. dollars traded on EBS).9 While not all currency pairs
  9
    EBS is now part of CME, offering an inter-dealer platform alongside the foreign exchange futures and options
traded on the exchange.



                                                      10
are equally liquid on both platforms (RM), e.g., is the leading platform for Commonwealth
currencies), Breedon and Vitale (2010) show that returns for a given currency pair are
highly correlated. That said, the two primary electronic communication networks account
for under 10% of total spot transactions and the proportion of the two venues is further
declining. However, BIS (2018) documents that they remain crucial for price discovery in
the foreign exchange market, leading, e.g., price changes in futures markets.
     In addition, from January 2006 onwards we also have access to futures data from the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), where dealers are not the dominant market partici-
pants. In fact, dealers and intermediaries generally account for around 30% of open positions,
while the remaining 70% are split between asset managers, leveraged funds and other par-
ticipants. The additional data allows us to compare intraday dynamics in the spot market
that we observe on RM and RTH with developments in the foreign exchange derivatives
space in terms of both prices and quantities. Furthermore, we use futures data on the dollar
index from the International Continental Exchange (ICE) to have a traded benchmark of
average foreign exchange returns; and, finally, we use foreign exchange options data available
through Datastream and Bloomberg to calculate option-implied volatility measures.


                 III.    Currency Returns Around the Clock

In this section, we provide novel evidence on the intraday behavior of currency returns and,
in particular, document the following novel stylized fact: Exchange rate returns display a
predictable intraday seasonality such that the U.S. dollar appreciates in the run up to foreign
exchange fixes and depreciates thereafter.


A.    Dissecting Currency Returns

Denote by st the log of the exchange rate, expressed in units of foreign currency per U.S.
dollar and ∆st the change in the log exchange rate between time t − 1 and t. A positive ∆st
corresponds to an appreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currency. Working

                                              11
in Eastern Time (ET), we define daily close-to-close log spot returns (∆sCT
                                                                         t
                                                                            C
                                                                              ) as the percent
change in the mid-quote from 5:00 p.m. on day t − 1 to 5:00 p.m. on day t, i.e.,


                                       ∆sCT
                                         t
                                            C
                                              = s5:00p.m.
                                                 t        − s5:00p.m.
                                                             t−1      .10                                         (1)


Next, we split the day into different periods guided by the timing of the three main currency
fixes across the globe, i.e., (a) the Tokyo fix at 9:55 a.m. local time; (b) the ECB fix at
2:15 p.m. local time; and (c) the London fix at 4:00 p.m. local time. Hence, we calculate
returns for the following five intraday windows (all times expressed in ET): (i) pre-Tokyo fix
(“pre-T”, 5:00 p.m. to 8:55 p.m.), (ii) post-Tokyo fix (“post-T”, 8:55 p.m. to 2:00 a.m.),
(iii) pre-ECB fix (“pre-E”, 2:00 a.m. to 8:15 a.m.), (iv) ECB fix to London fix (“E-L”, 8:15
a.m. to 11:00 a.m.), and (v) post-London fix (“post-L”, 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.).11 In order
to be able to distinguish between the post-Tokyo and the pre-ECB fix periods, we use 8:00
a.m. Frankfurt time (or 2:00 a.m. ET), i.e., the beginning of the FX trading day in Europe.
Similarly, we define the start of the FX trading day in New York as 8:00 a.m. ET.


B.      Currency Returns Around the Clock

We begin our analysis by plotting the annualized average cumulative five-minute log returns
from 5:00 p.m. ET to 5:00 p.m. ET the next day for the sample period 1 January 1999 to
31 December 2019 for the G9 currencies. Figure 2 plots the average annualized returns to
the euro, British pound and Japanese yen, while Figure 3 plots cumulative as well as the
hour-by-hour returns of the unconditional dollar portfolio (DOL) that goes long all foreign
currencies in equal weights.12
       All currencies show a distinct pattern of depreciation against the U.S. dollar ahead of the
  11
      Japan doesn’t follow daylight savings time; and, hence, the time difference between Tokyo and New York is either
13 or 14 hours. This means that for part of the year, the windows before and after the Tokyo fix end or start at 7:55
p.m. ET, respectively. In addition, there are a couple of weeks in the year when the time difference between New
York and London and the rest of Europe is an hour shorter than usual.
   12
      We follow Lustig, Roussanov, and Verdelhan (2011) in constructing the dollar portfolio using the G10 currencies
from our sample. To save space remaining individual plots are relegated to the Online Appendix.



                                                         12
Tokyo fix at 8:55 p.m. ET followed by a reversal thereafter. Once European markets open
at 2:00 a.m. ET, all currencies depreciate against the U.S. dollar ahead of the ECB fix. This
drop is much stronger for the European currencies and more muted for the Australian, New
Zealand, and Canadian dollar. The period between the ECB and London fix does not show a
clear pattern in the cross-section aside from the euro and yen, which appreciate until one hour
before the London fix. After the London fix, all currencies show a strong appreciation versus
the U.S. dollar, which continues until the end of the business day in the U.S. at 5:00 p.m.
ET. The yen is the sole exception, moving in the opposite direction. Overall, all currencies
except the yen appreciate during the U.S. intraday period and depreciate overnight.

                                   [INSERT FIGURES 2 AND 3 HERE]

    Aggregating across currencies, we find that the consistent depreciation of foreign curren-
cies before the Tokyo fix and after European markets open combined with the depreciation
of the U.S. dollar during the intraday period lead to a distinctive W -shaped pattern of the
cumulative returns measured over a full day. Overall, there is a significant appreciation of
the U.S. dollar during the overnight period of just over 4% per year followed by a reversal
during the day of 5%.13 Given the size of the FX spot market, this translates into very large
sums. Using daily turnover numbers from the 2019 Triannual BIS survey, the pattern we
detect implies daily swings exceeding a billion U.S. dollars.

                                          [INSERT TABLE I HERE]

    Table I summarizes Figures 2 and 3 formally by reporting average FX log returns (i.e.,
exchange rate changes) along with t-statistics for the various intraday sub-periods as defined
above.14
   13
      This means that over the full sample period, the U.S. dollar depreciates against the basket of currencies at a rate
of roughly 1% per year.
   14
      Note that at this stage we explicitly take daylight savings time into account by calculating pre- and post-Tokyo
fix returns using windows that line up around 9:55 a.m. Tokyo time. During the winter months when New York
follows EST, this means 7:55 p.m. ET and during the summer months when New York follows EDT this means 8:55
p.m. ET. All figures are plotted using ET only.


                                                          13
   As discussed above, all foreign currencies depreciate against the U.S. dollar after trading
in New York ceases and in anticipation of the Tokyo fix. The Australian and New Zealand
dollar (−7.15% and −8.53%, respectively) show the most negative average returns, while the
Swiss franc and the Canadian dollar depreciate the least compared to other currency pairs.
It is worth highlighting that irrespective of the magnitude of the returns, average annualized
returns of all currency pairs are different from zero at the 1% level of significance. The
reversal after the Tokyo fix is equally statistically significant for all currencies in our sample,
with the yen and the Norwegian krone exhibiting the highest magnitudes, which are 7.94%
and 7.44% per annum, respectively. Not very surprisingly, the dollar portfolio exhibits a
very strong and significant reversal pattern as well, dropping around 5% before the Tokyo
fix and recouping the losses thereafter.
   Leading up to the ECB fix, the European currencies and the yen significantly depreciate
against the U.S. dollar. The point estimates are large in both statistical and economic
terms. The highest drops are posted by the euro and the Swedish krona, with −8.87%
and −7.73% measured on an annual basis, respectively. Between the ECB and the London
fixes, currencies do not move as consistently in the cross-section as during other windows,
although this may be attributed to the fact that the window contains both a post-(ECB) fix
depreciation as well as a pre-(London) fix appreciation of the U.S. dollar, as can be seen in
Figures 2 and 3.
   After the London fix, the pattern is again quite striking: with the exception of the yen,
all currencies appreciate strongly (i.e., between 3.89% for the Canadian dollar and 6.87% for
the euro) during the period between the London fix and the close of markets in the U.S.,
whereas the yen depreciates by 2.92%. Overall, the dollar portfolio appreciates by over 4.5%
and movements for all currencies are strongly statistically significant.
   The last column in Table I makes clear that the pattern we document is an intraday
seasonality (i.e., a predictable component) that does not carry over to close-to-close returns.
In fact, with the exception of the Swiss franc, the Australian dollar and the New Zealand



                                                14
dollar (average annual appreciations of 2.43%, 1.20% and 2.33%, respectively) none of the
currencies in our sample moves by more than 1% on average over the whole sample period
we consider and none of the close-to-close returns are statistically significant. The dollar
portfolio for example appreciates on average by just over 1% per year.


C.    Robustness

We study the robustness of the reversals around the fixes across two dimensions: (i) over
time; and (ii) across data sets.
     First, Table II splits intraday dollar portfolio returns for the respective windows into four
subsamples. In each subsample we observe a W -shaped return pattern across the 24-hour
trading day. The reversal of the dollar portfolio is extremely significant between 1999 and
2014, averaging around 6.5% annualized on either side of the fix. In the 2014 to 2019 sample,
the reversal around the Tokyo fix is notably smaller but remains statistically significant.
The pre-ECB fix appreciation of the dollar portfolio is large and highly significant between
1999 and 2009 and again between 2014 and 2019, averaging around 5.0% per annum, while
the post-London depreciation is large and highly significant between 1999 and 2014, also
averaging over to 5.0% per annum.
     Thus, pre- and post-fix returns are very robust over time and consistent with the notion
of a reversal nets out to zero on average, implying that intraday FX seasonalities do not
normally appear in daily data. That said, on a daily basis the movements are on the order
of a few basis points, raising the question of whether the pattern is an artefact of using RTH
indicative quotes to calculate log spot changes.

                             [INSERT TABLES II AND III HERE]

     We examine this question using three alternative data sets, computing intraday returns
for the dollar portfolio from mid quotes of RTH forwards and CME futures as well as from
value-weighted average prices (VWAPs) from Refinitiv’s Matching (RM) trading platform.


                                                15
The dollar portfolio in this exercise comprises the euro, pound and yen, which are the only
liquid pairs for all alternative instruments over an extended sample period. In addition, we
calculate intraday returns using intercontinental-ICE dollar index (DX) futures. The starting
dates for each data set are January 1999 (RTH forwards and ICE futures) and January and
June 2006 (CME futures and RM).
   Table III shows that the magnitude of the reversals around the fixes computed from
forwards is very close to those computed from spot rates, suggesting there is no intraday
pattern in implied interest rate differentials. The results from the CME and from the ICE
futures are also strongly statistically significant as well as consistent with the main results
in Table I, confirming that the patterns also carry over to firm quotes taken from electronic
FX derivatives markets. Finally, the patterns are also present in traded prices, sourced from
RM, and are thus not absorbed by the effective bid-ask spread.
   In summary, the central contribution of this paper, the observation that the U.S. dollar
appreciates in the run up to foreign exchange fixings and depreciates thereafter, is robust
over time, across data sets, and across different segments of the foreign exchange market.
This is important for a number of reasons that go beyond a pure academic interest. Most
importantly, the presence of a robust intraday seasonality in foreign exchange spot and
derivatives markets implies that the timing of portfolio adjustments should be an important
consideration for asset managers, institutional investors and corporates who receive cash
flows in U.S. dollars and must convert back to their local currencies, or vice versa.


   IV.     FX Intermediation, Dollar Tilting and Pre-Fix Hedging

In this section, we develop and test a set of hypotheses designed to rationalize the findings
from the previous section. In motivating these hypotheses, we draw upon the results from the
microstructure literature and also consider institutional aspects related to foreign exchange
intermediation. Moreover, we study intraday patterns in trading quantities using data from
both Refinitiv FX Matching (RM) and from the CME. As discussed in Section II, RM is

                                              16
the leading inter-dealer platform for Commonwealth currencies; and, hence, we focus in this
section on the pound and the Australian dollar to ensure a sufficient level of liquidity for our
trading data.


A.    Liquidity Provision and Return Patterns

In benchmark models of inventory management (Stoll (1978) or Grossman and Miller (1988)),
dealers provide liquidity to traders that demand immediacy before they offset their positions
later in the day. A key prediction arising in these models is that prices exhibit reversal
patterns around liquidity events. We argue that the key times within the day for liquidity
events to occur (i.e., for order imbalances to manifest in the foreign exchange market) are
at the major fixing times. Moreover, the intraday foreign exchange price patterns around
the fixes resemble price patterns in U.S Treasury securities around pre-scheduled auction
dates studied in Lou, Yan, and Zhang (2013). They document that prices of Treasury
securities gradually decline in anticipation of the auction dates before reversing thereafter.
Borrowing from the framework of Vayanos and Wang (2009), Sigaux (2018) formalizes the
intuition about the mechanism at play and highlights the importance of uncertain net supply
of Treasuries at the auction.
     Adapting the insights of these papers to currency markets and combining them with
the stylized fact that the price of the U.S. dollar exhibits a local peak at fixing times, we
conjecture the existence of an unconditional net demand for U.S. dollars (or, equivalently,
a net supply of foreign currency) at each fix. The demand for dollars at the fix could, for
example, be driven by the net global demand for U.S. dollar assets coupled with a preference
for transacting at the fix. To be clear, however, this does not imply the existence of an
unconditional U.S. dollar demand when measured over a full day. Moreover, even with an
unconditional demand for U.S. dollars at the fix, there remains considerable uncertainty
about the size of the order imbalance at the beginning of the trading day. Thus, dealers
should be willing to provide liquidity (or to bear inventory risk) if expected future execution


                                              17
prices (i.e., returns) increase. As a result, dealers face a trade-off between arbitraging the
difference of the pre-fix price and the expected price of the U.S. dollar at the fix on the one
side, and hedging the uncertainty about the net dollar demand at the fix on the other side.
This leads to pre-fix hedging. In fact, banks with advanced knowledge of order imbalances
are explicit in their intentions to hedge their positions and this practice may have negative
consequences for the rates at which client orders are executed.15 Given the relevance of
the fixes, however, it is reasonable to assume that for most clients the perceived benefits of
transacting at the fix using an observable and ex post verifiable benchmark rate outweighs
the potential costs in terms of missing out on the best possible exchange rate.
       Pre-fix hedging can be seen as analogous to the mechanism described in Sigaux (2018)
for the Treasury market, albeit at a much higher frequency. Unlike the situation in the
Treasury market, dealers in the foreign exchange market can easily be faced with either
an excess demand for or supply of dollars on any given day. Thus, conditional on the daily
order imbalance, the reversals we expect to observe should lead to either V -shaped or inverse
V -shaped price patterns around the fixes.
       By no arbitrage, returns in different segments of the foreign exchange market are very
highly correlated, as for example shown in Table III. At the same time, we expect that
contemporaneous order flow is positively correlated with price movements, as implied by
standard microstructure models. However, an explanation based on financially constrained
intermediaries also implies that the order flow of dealers is most informative for price dis-
covery. Hence, to the extent that we can assign order flow to different market participants,
we expect information from dealer transactions to contain more relevant information with
respect to the price patterns we observe compared to order flow from other market partici-
  15
     The practice is usually described in the “FX Disclosure Notice” that forms part of the client agreement to
trade currencies. See, e.g., the notices by Citi Group (www.citigroup.com/citi/spotfxdisclosurenotice.html),
Goldman Sachs (www.goldmansachs.com/disclosures/terms-of-dealing.pdf), Banco Santander (www.santander.
com/en/landing-pages/foreign-exchange-disclosure-notice), or Nordea (nordeamarkets.com/wp-content/
uploads/2018/10/FX-Spot-Disclosure-Notice.pdf). Pre-fix hedging has also attracted attention from policymak-
ers, as can be seen in the press release of the global foreign exchange committee on the relevance of pre-hedging
activities for the principles of good practices in the foreign exchange market (https://www.globalfxc.org/press/
p210511.htm).


                                                       18
pants.
To summarize, the above arguments lead us to formulate and test the following three hy-
potheses:

      Hypothesis 1: Unconditionally, we expect to observe negative order flow (i.e., a
       demand for U.S. dollars) ahead of the major currency fixes followed by positive order
       flow thereafter.

      Hypothesis 2: Conditionally, we expect to observe reversals around the fixes. If the
       order flow before the fix is negative (i.e., there is buying pressure for the U.S. dollar),
       we should expect the foreign currency to appreciate after the fix and vice versa.

      Hypothesis 3: We expect order flow to be positively correlated with prices in the
       foreign exchange market. At the same time, we expect dealer order flow to be more
       informative for price discovery and for explaining the reversal patterns than order flow
       measured using trades from other market participants.


B.    Intraday Volumes

We start by comparing trading volumes for the three main currencies studied in Section III
plus the Australian dollar on RM and the CME for the sample period from June 2006 to
December 2019. Figure 4 displays the intraday volumes measured at a five-minute frequency
for the four currencies on both platforms (Panels (a) and (b) for RM, Panels (c) and (d) for
the CME). In terms of magnitudes, the discrepancies between the Commonwealth currencies
on the one side and the euro and yen on the other side are immediately obvious. While
volumes for the pound and the Australian dollar have similar orders of magnitude for futures
on the CME as well as for inter-dealer trading on RM, the gap becomes immense for the
yen and the euro, where the (notional) volume on the CME is up to a hundred times higher
compared to the traded volume on RM. Liquidity for the pound and the Australian dollar
is high across both platforms, with daily volumes of 15 and 14 billion U.S. dollars on RM


                                                19
while the notional trading volumes for futures are 8 and 6 billion U.S. dollars, respectively.
Daily volumes for the euro and the yen on the other hand are below 1.5 billion U.S. dollars
on RM while they reach over 34 and 12 billion U.S. dollars for the euro and yen futures,
respectively.

                                 [INSERT FIGURE 4 HERE]

   Despite the different orders of magnitude in terms of trading volumes, the intraday volume
patterns across currencies and platforms are largely similar. In line with the identified
importance of the fixes for returns, volumes generally display spikes in trade at the currency
fix times, i.e., we identify the fix times as potential liquidity events in the spirit of Grossman
and Miller (1988). For RM, for example, the volume for trading the pound against the U.S.
dollar amounts to over 336 million U.S. dollars at the London fix, ten times higher than the
daily average. Similarly, traded volume in the euro exceeds 12 million U.S. dollars at the
ECB fix (nearly three times the daily average), and the amount of yen traded at the Tokyo
fix is twice as large as the daily average (approximately 1.6 million U.S. dollars). Thus, at
least when considering inter-dealer trading, the turning points in terms of return reversals
are also marked by distinct spikes in trading volumes.
   However, the patterns in Figure 4 are not as unambiguous as the return patterns displayed
in Figures 2 and 3. In particular, there are other times in the day that display significant
spikes in volumes in addition to the three major currency fixes. In fact, some of the highest
volumes are recorded at 8:30 a.m. ET and at 10:00 a.m. ET, coinciding with the timing of
the most important U.S. macroeconomic data releases and the expiration time for currency
options, respectively (see, e.g., Chaboud, Chernenko, and Wright (2007)). In fact, these are
the times in the day with the highest volumes for futures, eclipsing even the volume spikes
around the London fix. During European and U.S. trading hours, we also observe distinct
hourly and half-hourly spikes aligned with intraday fixes from Bloomberg and other data
providers. However, high volume does not imply a reversal, as we observe no price trends on
either side of these additional volume peaks. In that context, it is important to be reminded

                                               20
that the peak for the U.S. dollar in terms of value is at 8:15 a.m. ET around the ECB fix
and not at 8:30 a.m. ET when the macro news are released. That is, while volume data
provides interesting and relevant information about intraday trading activity as well as a
motivation to specify intraday liquidity events, they do not necessarily help in pinning down
the reversal points in terms of returns, further indicating a special role of currency fixes.


C.    Order Imbalance

Even though the peaks in daily trading volume are similar for all four currencies and across
both platforms, the differences in liquidity dictate that we concentrate on the pound and the
Australian dollar for a more detailed analysis of quantities and order imbalances. Moreover,
liquidity during European and U.S. trading hours is much higher compared to liquidity
during Asian trading hours on RM because the platform is mainly used by European and
U.S. banks. Hence, the main focus of the analysis in this section is on the pound and the
Australian dollar around the European fixes, although we report all results for the Tokyo fix
as well.

                        [INSERT TABLE IV AND FIGURE 5 HERE]

     Hypothesis 1 conjectures the existence of an excess U.S. dollar demand at the fix, while
Hypothesis 2 argues for a reversal around the fix conditional on the order flow leading up
to the fix. Taken together, the two hypotheses imply the unconditional V -shaped price
patterns around the fixes. To explore Hypothesis 1, we study the unconditional order flow
for U.S. dollars around the fixes. Panel A in Table IV contains pre- and post-fix summary
statistics for order flow on RM, defined as buyer- minus seller-initiated trading volume, i.e.,
negative order flow implies U.S. dollar buying pressure. We report both median and mean
values, but our main focus lies on the former because the distribution is skewed and contains
significant outliers. For both currencies, the means as well as the medians are negative
before the London fix and positive thereafter, lending empirical support for Hypothesis 1.


                                              21
The medians are strongly statistically significant for the pre- and post-fix windows. For
the pre-fix window the median order imbalance is around 20 million U.S. dollars for either
currency, which translates to just over 6% of the pound volume traded at the London fix.
In contrast, median order imbalances on CME are magnitudes smaller and generally close
to zero even though traded volumes on RM for the Australian dollar and pound are only
about twice as large as volumes on CME. In the same vein, the fraction of days with negative
(positive) order flow is significantly larger than 50% before (after) the London fix for both
currencies on RM while there is no significant difference for order flow on CME. Finally, the
pre-fix results for RM are qualitatively the same when considering the ECB fix that takes
place roughly three hours before the London fix, i.e., the unconditional order imbalance is
not simply driven by trading activity that occurs tightly around the London fix.
       Figure 5 visualizes the results by displaying the median order flow (in million U.S. dollars)
throughout the day for the Australian dollar and the pound at one-hour intervals for both
the RM platform (Panels (a) and (b)) and for futures traded on CME (Panels (c) and (d)).
The positive (blue) bars represent U.S. dollar selling pressure while the negative (red) bars
display U.S. dollar buying pressure. The price patterns we document in Section III largely
carry over to patterns in quantities on the RM inter-dealer platform as we observe strong
unconditional U.S. dollar buying pressure ahead of the London fix that reverses thereafter.
When considering shorter windows, we observe a significant spike in the net demand for
U.S. dollars in the five-minute interval at the London fix for both the Australian dollar and
the pound.16 Around the Tokyo fix, the pattern is not obvious because the hourly windows
suggest that there is buying pressure for the Australian dollar throughout the Asian trading
hours while the buying pressure for the pound is only apparent after the Tokyo fix and in
the early hours of European trading. That said, trading patterns during Asian trading hours
are likely less informative since the RM platform is used mainly by institutions based in
Europe and the U.S. and, thus, volume during Asian hours is significantly smaller (and less
  16
    In the Online Appendix, we present the average order flow for five-minute intervals because the median becomes
zero for narrow windows away from the fixings times.



                                                       22
representative) than volume during European and U.S. trading hours.
     The results suggest that while volume on CME for the Australian dollar and the pound is
of a similar order of magnitude compared to RM, the connection between the order flow on
the two platforms is weak at best. In fact, order flow correlations for hourly as well as five-
minute intervals are usually below 0.2 and never go above 0.3 for any window and currency.
At the same time, returns across the two platforms are very close. This may be surprising and
seemingly contradictory given the notion that, on aggregate, order flow and returns should
be highly correlated in general. However, in the foreign exchange market, the electronic
platforms only capture a small fraction of overall activity, as discussed in Section II. The
apparent lack of an unconditional pattern in the futures order flow with respect to currency
fixes hints at important differences in trading activity in the two segments of the foreign
exchange market that we explore further in the next section.
     In summary, the unconditional order flow from the inter-dealer platform RM exhibits
patterns that are mirroring returns and are in line with the notion that order flow of marginal
investors and returns are correlated. Moreover, the unconditional dealer order flow lends
support to our Hypothesis 1 that there is unconditional net demand for U.S. dollars at the
fixes. On the other hand, futures order flow does not exhibit any clear pattern. This finding
is consistent with Hypothesis 3, which is explored in more detail in the next section. Finally,
the size of the order imbalances can be economically large, especially when warehoused by
a small set of core intermediaries.


D.    Reversal Regressions

As highlighted in Section A, our explanation is based on liquidity provision of financially
constrained intermediaries. This means that the order flow of these particular market par-
ticipants should be most informative for price discovery, as expressed in Hypothesis 3. Nor-
mally, it is virtually impossible to understand exactly who trades with whom in electronic
and anonymous markets. However, we have access to two data sets that contain information


                                              23
on trades and volumes that allow us to calculate high-frequency measures of order flow for
different segments of the foreign exchange market. As discussed in Section II, it is reasonable
to assume that dealers are dominant on RM while this is not necessarily the case on CME.
This allows us to examine Hypothesis 3, which specifies the link between order flow and
returns and conjectures that the link is stronger for dealer order flow.
    The regression specification we study is closely related to Campbell, Grossman, and Wang
(1993) and Andrade, Chang, and Seasholes (2008), who derive price pressure predictions in
equilibrium models. In their models, returns are positively related to contemporaneous order
imbalances through an information effect, yet negatively related to lagged order imbalances
through an inventory effect.17
    We start the analysis by regressing post-fix window returns on pre-fix window order flow,
both computed from observations from the inter-dealer RM platform:


                                 ∆spost
                                   t    = α + β1 OFtpre + β2 OFtpost + εt ,                                    (2)


where ∆spost
        t    denotes the return measured over the post-fix window on day t, while OFtpre
and OFtpost are the order flow before and after the fix, respectively. Returns are expressed in
basis points and measured using value-weighted average prices (VWAPs), while order flow
is defined as buyer minus seller-initiated volume.18

                                 [INSERT TABLES V AND VI HERE]

    All coefficients on contemporaneous order flow in Table V are strongly positive and
highly significant, in line with the findings of Evans and Lyons (2002) and implying that
   17
      Following Kyle (1985) and Glosten and Milgrom (1985), the literature typically interprets price impact due to
contemporaneous order flow as an indirect measure of illiquidity in markets where agents trade based on asymmetric
information, whereas the lagged price impact of order flow is interpreted as an inventory effect a là Grossman and
Miller (1988). For textbook treatments on this subject, see, e.g., Hasbrouck (2007) or Foucault, Pagano, and Röell
(2013).
   18
      In the Online Appendix we repeat the analysis using normalized order N OF as the independent variable, which
is obtained by taking the order flow relative to total traded volume within each trading window. The results remain
qualitatively unchanged.


                                                        24
order flow on the RM platform is highly informative about price discovery. According to
Hypothesis 2, the coefficient on lagged order flow is expected to be negative, consistent with
the idea that banks and dealers engage in pre-hedging activity to provide liquidity at the fix
that leads to either a predicted appreciation or predicted depreciation of the U.S. dollar that
reverses thereafter. Consistent with the prediction, we find β1 to be negative and statistically
significant for all fixes, meaning that the lagged order flow robustly predicts a return reversal
after the fix. In fact, while the results for the unconditional order flow are weaker around the
Tokyo fix, as discussed in Section C, the coefficient estimates for the conditional regressions
remain strongly significant and negative. Finally, we find that the relationship between pre-
fix order flow and post-fix returns remains statistically and economically strong if we exclude
the last three hours leading up to the London fix and measure the order flow only up to the
ECB fix. Thus, our results are not driven by trading activity in the last few minutes leading
up to the London fix as studied in the previous literature (see, e.g., Evans (2018)).
   For the pound, the point estimate of −4.2 for the lagged order flow before the London
fix implies that an order imbalance of one standard deviation (amounting to approximately
6% of the trading volume during that window) leads to a reversal of around 2.5 basis points,
which is larger than the average unconditional effect we document in Section III. For the
Australian dollar the results are even stronger, and a one standard deviation shock to lagged
order flow implies a reversal of over 3.3 basis points. Before the Tokyo fix, the respective
coefficient estimates are −25.9 and −28.1, implying reversals of 2.4 and 3.7 basis points for
a one standard deviation shock for the pound and the Australian dollar, respectively.
   We repeat the analysis using quantities measured on the CME in Panel A of Table VI.
The results are strikingly different from those presented in Table V. The coefficients on the
contemporaneous order flow are much smaller and they are no longer significant for the
pound. Similarly, only the lagged order flow before the Tokyo fix is statistically significant
for both the pound and the Australian dollar. We add the quantities from the RM platform




                                               25
to the CME regression and estimate a regression model of the form


             ∆spost               pre           post          pre         post
               t,CM E = α + γ1 OFt,CM E + γ2 OFt,CM E + β1 OFt,RM + β2 OFt,RM + εt ,



where ∆spost
        t,CM E refers to the VWAP-based futures returns from CME, and the subscripts

CM E and RM indicate the source of the pre- and post-fix order flow measures, respectively.
The estimates in Panel B of Table VI show that while trading activity on CME is rather
uninformative about price discovery, the RM order flow is highly significant, the coefficients
have the same order of magnitude as those in Table V, and the goodness-of-fit increases
substantially. More interestingly, even the lagged RM order flow is negative and statistically
significant.19
       The results in Table VI should also be a reminder that the relationship between order
flow and returns is not mechanical in the foreign exchange market as it is tremendously
fragmented.20 While it seems intuitive that aggregate U.S. dollar buying pressure leads to
an appreciation of the U.S. dollar, this does not need to hold for any platform that captures
only a fraction of aggregate trading activity, as discussed earlier.21 Overall, these results
show that trading activity on the RM platform is informative for the aggregate market
and, further, provide suggestive evidence that the marginal investors in the foreign exchange
markets are foreign exchange dealers and not hedgers or speculators. In fact, in the Online
Appendix we also show that qualitative (and quantitative) results remain largely unchanged
when using the RTH returns in regression (2) that are based on bank quotes instead of the
returns from RM that are based on executed trades.
  19
     We show in the Online Appendix that these results also remain robust to using normalized order flow.
  20
     See also Ranaldo and Somogyi (2021) for evidence on information content of trades executed by different partic-
ipants in the spot market.
  21
     In fact, running conventional return on order flow regressions across different frequencies (i.e., one-minute, five-
minutes, ..., one-day, one-month, etc.) we document in the Online Appendix how regression coefficients and explana-
tory power of CME order flow is consistently lower compared to order flow obtained from RM (Berger, Chaboud,
Chernenko, Howorka, and Wright (2008)).




                                                          26
                              V.    Reversal Portfolios

In this section, we analyze the reversals around the fixes from a different angle by studying
a trading strategy that exploits the sum of the pre- and the post-fix returns for each day d
as follows:


                                ∆sTokyo
                                  d     = −∆sPre-T
                                             d     + ∆sPd ost−T                           (3)

                             ∆sEurope
                               d      = −∆sdP re−E + ∆sPd ost−L ,                         (4)


i.e., before the Tokyo and ECB fixes, we take a short position in foreign currencies that
is reversed post-Tokyo and reversed post-London fix respectively. Note that we ignore the
period between the ECB and the London fixes for this exercise because the results in Table
I suggest that there is no clear directional movement between the ECB and the London fix.
As seen in Figure 3, on average, the U.S. depreciates after the ECB fix and appreciates again
into the London fix.


A.   Summary Statistics

We start by reporting summary statistics for all currencies as well as the dollar portfolio in
Table VII. First, we ask whether there are significantly more days in which the reversal re-
turns are positive compared to days when they are negative. Overall, returns are significantly
more often positive than negative. For the reversals around the Tokyo fix, the differences
are always strongly statistically significant for all currencies ranging from 55% positive for
the Swiss franc to almost 60% for the dollar portfolio. For the Europe window, the fractions
range between 51% for the Pacific and Asian currencies and 55% or 56% for the pound,
euro, and the dollar portfolio, for example. The differences for all European currencies are
strongly statistically significant; and only for the Japanese yen do we obtain a p-value below
5%. Absent microstructure effects, returns should be unpredictable in efficient markets at



                                             27
high frequencies.22 And, in fact, when considering daily close-to-close currency returns, only
the Australian dollar has more than 51% positive return days. Thus, the results for the
reversal returns are rather remarkable when considering the usual benchmarks.
      To further put the results in perspective, daily returns to the S&P 500 stock index are
positive 54% of the days. Moreover, if the daily results are aggregated to a monthly frequency
we find that returns around the Tokyo fix are positive between 70% (for the New Zealand
dollar) and 83% (for the dollar portfolio), again with high statistical significance. For the
European window, the reversal returns for the European currencies are positive for at least
two-thirds of all months, again with the fraction for the monthly S&P 500 returns lagging
behind that number (see the Online Appendix for the close-to-close numbers).

                                         [INSERT TABLE VII HERE]

      While relatively small, the consistent positive return bias translates into significant aver-
age annualized returns over time before taking transaction costs into account. Around the
Tokyo fix, the annualized reversal returns range between 6.2% for the Swiss franc and 14.2%
for the New Zealand dollar. For the European window, the annualized returns are partic-
ularly high for the euro, pound, and Swiss franc, at 15.6%, 12.4% and 12%, respectively.
Annualized standard deviations are generally below 8% for all currencies and both reversal
windows, or about half the standard deviation of the S&P 500 index over the same time
period. Furthermore, almost all reversal return portfolios exhibit positive skewness and fat
tails (only the Swiss franc and the Japanese yen returns exhibit negative skewness around
the Europe fixes). This is in stark contrast to, for example, daily (or monthly) stock returns
that are significantly negatively skewed for the same sample period.
      The characteristics for the reversal portfolios are also very different compared to those
of the carry portfolios reported in Brunnermeier, Nagel, and Pedersen (2009). While carry
trades are profitable but have fat tails and crash risk, our reversal portfolios generate positive
returns with fat tails but generally positive skewness. Moreover, there is no clear pattern
 22
      At lower frequencies, predictability may arise due to time-varying risk premia.


                                                          28
relating the skewness to the interest rate differential as is the case for close-to-close returns,
where for example the Australian and New Zealand dollar exhibit negative skewness while
the returns to the Swiss franc and the yen are positively skewed. In summary, the reversal
portfolios generate significant returns with favorable characteristics. Next, we further explore
the behavior of the reversal portfolio over time.


B.    Total Return Indices

Using the daily reversal returns, we construct total return indices that are displayed in Panels
(a) and (b) of Figure 6. The reversal portfolios display remarkable persistence over time and
for both windows we consider. All portfolios (with the exception of the yen for the Europe
window) accrue steadily over the whole period but with a stronger appreciation around the
local fixes. An investment of one U.S. dollar in the yen for a trading strategy around the
Tokyo fix climbs to over 12.2 U.S. dollars by the end of 2019. The same strategy for the euro,
pound and dollar portfolio results in a final portfolio value of 8.9, 5.3 and 8.6 U.S. dollars,
respectively. In contrast, the portfolio values for the Europe window are 26.9, 13.5 and 6.4
U.S. dollars for the euro, pound and dollar portfolio, respectively, while the yen portfolio
actually loses about 6% of the initial value.

                                 [INSERT FIGURE 6 HERE]

     From the total return indices, we construct annual returns to further investigate how
the patterns may relate to the state of the economy. In Panels (c) and (d) of Figure 6,
we display the year-by-year reversal returns for the dollar portfolio. For both fixes, the
returns are particularly high during 2001 when the dot-com bubble burst as well as during
the credit crisis, reaching returns of around 20% per year. On the other hand, returns were
comparatively lower for the Tokyo fix between 2004 and 2007 and for the Europe fix in 2007.
Moreover, returns around the Tokyo fix have been around 5% or below since 2013, and the
first year with a negative reversal return was recorded in 2018. For the Europe fix, the


                                                29
average reversal returns have remained around 10% per year after the crisis but dropped to
below 5% during the last two years in our sample.
     While the reversal returns have remained remarkably robust and consistently positive for
most of the sample period, there is a downward trend during the most recent period. First,
anecdotal evidence based on conversations with traders suggests that some arbitrage capital
is allocated to exploiting the reversal patterns. This would predictably lead to a decline
in the potential returns. As we discuss further below, trading the fix can be profitable
even when transaction costs are taken into account, but these profits may be even higher if
the patterns are exploited by the bigger players in the market. Second, periods with lower
returns coincide with periods of low volatility in financial markets. We show in Section D
that reversal returns are in fact lower during low volatility periods in line with an explanation
based on dealers’ risk-bearing capacity.


C.    Calendar and Information Effects

We investigate whether reversal returns are related to any known low-frequency return sea-
sonality (or calendar effects) or whether they are driven by monetary policy or macroeco-
nomic announcements. In short, we conclude that neither of these explanations can account
for the reversal patterns we document in Table I.
     In the Online Appendix, we show that the reversal returns around both the Tokyo and
the European fixes are consistently positive in all days of the week, weeks of the month
as well as months of the year, generally with very high t-statistics. In particular, we can
rule out that our results are driven by a Monday or January effect, which have received
significant attention in the context of equity markets (Pettengill (2003) or Keamer (1994)).
Furthermore, our results are not driven by and end-of-month equity hedging channel as
studied by Melvin and Prins (2015) or a third week of the month option hedging channel
(Cao, Chordia, and Zhan (2021)). Finally, we also do not find a stronger effect at the end of
each quarter that could be due to deviations in covered interest rate parity linking forward


                                               30
and spot FX positions to banks’ balance sheets (Du, Tepper, and Verdelhan (2018)).
     To test for the effects of monetary policy and macro announcements, we also repro-
duce Table I in the Online Appendix, splitting up the sample into announcement and non-
announcement days. There is virtually no difference between the average window returns
measured for all days compared to the window returns measured on non-announcement days
only, and we conclude that the average return patterns are not driven by swings on days
when monetary policy news is released
     In short, as already indicated by the robustness tests in Section III, the return reversal
patterns around currency fixes are a pervasive feature of the data that is not concentrated
on any particular date or news event.


D.    Reversal Returns and Volatility

By inspection, Figure 6 suggests that reversal returns are larger during periods of financial
distress, hinting that the fix reversals might be related to dealers’ risk-bearing capacity. To
investigate this further, we estimate the following panel regression:


                    ∆sji,t = αi + β1 V IXt−1 + β2 IRDi,t−1 + β3 EQDi,t + εi,t ,


where ∆sTi,tOK and ∆sEU
                     i,t
                         R
                           refer to portfolio reversal returns for the Tokyo or Europe window,
respectively. On the right-hand side, we include the lagged VIX (V IXt−1 ) to proxy for the
aggregate level of volatility (or risk) in the market. In addition, we also control for the
lagged short-term interest rate differentials between the U.S. and country i (IRDi,t−1 ), as
well as the contemporaneous equity return differentials between the U.S. and country i
(EQDi,t ). Portfolio reversal returns are measured in basis points; and t-statistics reported
in parentheses are computed using a robust covariance estimator. Currency fixed effects are
included but omitted from the table to save space. The regression is estimated at the daily




                                                31
frequency and covers the sample period from January 1999 to December 2019.23
       Table VIII reports both univariate and multivariate specifications for the daily reversal
returns for the Tokyo and Europe windows, respectively. First, we find large positive and
highly statistically significant coefficient estimates for the lagged VIX. This is in line with
the idea that during periods of elevated risk, dealers should demand a higher risk premium
for providing immediacy because their constraints are more likely to be binding (Adrian and
Xie (2020)) while demand for safe haven assets increases (Jiang, Krishnamurthy, and Lustig
(2021)).

                                         [INSERT TABLE VIII]

       Interpreting the economic size of the regression estimate, consider a scenario whereby the
VIX is at its sample median level of 18%, the factor loading for the Tokyo reversal regression
estimates implies a daily return reversal of ∼ 4 basis points per day, while the London
reversal regression estimates imply a daily return reversal of ∼ 2.5 basis points per day. On
an annualized basis, these are comparable to the unconditional estimates reported in Table
I. Considering the remaining regression specifications, we find that, consistent with standard
uncovered interest rate parity logic, the loading on IRDi,t−1 is positive and significant; and
in line with the uncovered equity parity relationship proposed and studied by Hau and Rey
(2006), the contemporaneous loading on the U.S index return is also significant and positive.
However, importantly for a global dollar demand explanation in the presence of constrained
intermediaries, the final column shows that the positive significant link to volatility is robust
to these controls. In line with the special role of the U.S. dollar in global FX markets, we
show in the Online Appendix that the distinct intraday pattern cannot be replicated when
using other currency base portfolios. Neither the euro, pound, or yen base portfolio shows a
distinct reversal in returns around institutional fixes.
  23
    We show in the Online Appendix that these results are robust and qualitatively similar when currency implied
volatility is used as a measure of uncertainty.




                                                      32
E.    Transaction Costs

The stylized facts regarding the intraday dynamics of currencies around the major fixes
presented in Sections III and B are based on indicative high-frequency mid-quotes and,
hence, do not account for transaction costs. In this section we examine whether the trading
strategies implied by the return patterns are profitable in a practical setting that explicitly
takes bid-ask spreads into account. Indeed, the patterns presented in Table I suggest that
a trader would have to move aggressively in and out of positions up to four times over the
course of a 24-hour period to exploit the systematic exchange rate movements we document.
Incorporating transaction costs into the analysis allows us to further explore whether these
patterns point towards inefficient markets or whether they are merely consistent with a story
related to financial intermediation where dealers set spreads to help offset intraday swings.
     Using the quoted high-frequency bid and ask prices from our benchmark RTH data set
as a proxy for the effective spread, we calculate reversal returns net of transaction costs.
That said, there is evidence that these spreads are considerably larger than the effective
spreads based on firm quotes and executed trades, leading to measured net returns that are
too conservative compared to what professional traders that move large currency volumes
could achieve (see, e.g., Gilmore and Hayashi (2011)). Cespa, Gargano, Riddiough, and
Sarno (2021) compare the bid-ask spreads from Datastream with quoted prices from other
data providers in the years after the financial crisis, and they suggest decreasing indicative
spreads by up to 75% in order to obtain a more realistic proxy of the transaction costs that
big traders in the over-the-counter FX market face. When considering the profitability of
the trading strategies based on the over-the-counter rates, we take an agnostic approach
and report results for different spread levels ranging from zero on the one hand to the full
reported bid-ask spreads in our data on the other hand.
     We start our analysis by exploring the reversal returns of the three currency pairs euro,
pound and yen for the Tokyo and Europe window, respectively. To incorporate transaction
costs appropriately, we have to separately consider the pre- as well as the post-fix window


                                              33
as we switch from going long the U.S. dollar before the fix to shorting the U.S. after the fix.
For example, suppose within each 24-hour day we fix three periods representing a pre-fix
point in time (τ = 1), the time of the fix (τ = 2), and a post fix period (τ = 3). Each day
an investor longs the dollar pre-fix, closes this position at the fix, and shorts the dollar post
fix. The legs of the trade take into account inter-temporal variation in spreads


                                       ∆spre
                                         t   = −sa1 + sb2

                                       ∆spost
                                         t    = +sb2 − sa3 ,


where superscript a (b) refer to the ask (bid) price in FX spot markets when RTH data is
employed. The returns to this strategy are the sum


                          retFt IX = ∆spre
                                       t   + ∆spost
                                               t    = −sa1 + 2sb2 − sa3


and so makes money if bid prices at the fix are larger than the average of ask prices at the
beginning and end of the trading session. Put differently, the dollar must rise outside the
bid-ask spread across the trading periods

                                               1
                           retFt IX > 0 → sb2 > (sa1 + sa3 ) ∼ sa1 ∼ sa3
                                               2

For the Tokyo fix, we take long dollar positions between 5:00 p.m. and 8:55 p.m. and short
dollar positions between 8:55 p.m. and 2:00 a.m. For the fixes in Europe, we go long the
dollar between 2:00 a.m. and 8:15 a.m. (until the ECB fix) and short the U.S. dollar after
the London fix from 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. The results are summarized in Table IX.
   As above for the longer sample period, the annualized returns for trading the three
currencies around the fixes are very high as long as transaction costs are ignored. Going
long the dollar pre-Tokyo fix and reversing the position post-Tokyo fix yields annualized
average returns of 10.44%, 7.94% and 12.0% for the euro, pound and yen, respectively.


                                                34
Similar gains are obtained for euro and pound around the Europe fixes. Incorporating the
full transaction costs adjustment as implied by the indicative quotes, again, reverses the
picture, and average returns for most windows turn negative, reflecting the huge turnover
that the trading strategy implies. However, reducing the bid-ask spread by 50% now yields
positive returns for most windows and all currencies amounting to 2.65%, 0.51% and 2.73%
for the euro, pound and yen, respectively. This strategy is even more profitable for European
currencies, generating 8.64% and 5.46% returns pre-ECB and post-London fixes. Using T-
bill rates we also calculate Sharpe ratios for trading the W -shaped intraday patterns. In line
with the results for the gross returns, Sharpe ratios are negative using the full transaction
costs and positive and very high if transaction costs are ignored. Market participants that are
able to trade at better bid-ask spreads (BA, 50%) may earn Sharpe ratios ranging between
0.12 and 1.03 when exploiting the predictable intraday patterns.
   Finally, Figure 7 displays the total return indices presented in Panels (a) and (b) of Figure
6 but accounting for transaction costs as measured by 50% of the reported bid-ask spread.
Panel (a) of Figure 7 shows that trading the Tokyo reversal yields negative returns in the early
years of the sample, positive but relatively flat returns until around 2007, which subsequently
reversed until around 2013 and have since generated negative returns for the EUR and GBP
and flat returns for the JPY. To summarize, including costs an investor would have almost
doubled an initial one U.S. dollar following our Tokyo fix strategy trading the JPY or EUR
and would have come out flat trading GBP. Panel (b) of Figure 7 shows cumulative returns
to the London reversal strategy. Consistent with Table IX the returns are large. A one U.S.
dollar investment in 1999 would have generated 3.13 U.S. dollars for the pound or 6.08 U.S.
dollars for the euro while an investor would have lost significant money entering this trade
for the yen, which is obvious given that the yen is the one currency that behaves differently
post-London fix (a local currency appreciation in local trading hours for this pair).

                        [INSERT TABLE IX and FIGURE 7 HERE]

   In summary, while there is strong intraday predictability around the fixings, it is not

                                              35
obvious that this can be exploited by the average trader. First, returns from trading in a
relatively small window around the fix are usually more than offset by transaction costs.
Second, holding the currency positions for a longer window that allows traders to exploit the
persistent drift patterns throughout the day may lead to positive excess returns, at least for
traders that are able to get reasonably good conditions to trade.


                                   VI.     Conclusion

This paper studies demand shocks for U.S. dollars in high frequency around currency fixings
and documents a new empirical fact: the U.S. dollar systematically appreciates ahead of the
three major currency fixings and depreciates thereafter. That is, the U.S. dollar reaches an
intraday peak at the Tokyo, ECB and London fixes, respectively, implying that on average
there is excess demand for U.S. dollars at particular times of the day.
   We show that the reversals around the fixes are a pervasive feature of the data, robust
over the 21 years of our data span, and are present for all of the G9 currencies, which
cover close to 75% of global transaction volumes. The return patterns spill over into over-
the-counter forward as well as the exchange-traded futures markets. This is important for
institutional investors and corporate hedgers alike because it implies that the intraday timing
of their speculative and hedging activities, as well as the timing of currency conversions and
portfolio adjustments, affects their balance sheets.
   We conjecture an explanation based on constrained intermediation by foreign exchange
dealers who provide immediacy for segmented transaction demand around the clock. To
test this conjecture we develop a set of hypotheses drawing from insights of the market
microstructure literature.
   Consistent with our explanation, we present evidence (i) of an unconditional demand
for U.S. dollars at the currency fixing times; (ii) that the order flow from a dealer platform
is informative about the intraday price patterns, implying that the “marginal investors”
in currency markets are a small set of foreign exchange intermediaries; and (iii) that the

                                              36
hedging practices of dealers before the respective fixes are related to the subsequent reversals
thereafter. Moreover, we also provide evidence that information on traded quantities from
the futures market is not related to the intraday reversal patterns, providing further support
that intermediaries are the marginal investors that determine exchange rates.




                                              37
                                        VII.      Tables

NOTE 1: Intraday Returns. Different intraday periods around the Tokyo, ECB and London
fixes are defined as follows: The pre-Tokyo fix window starts at 5:00 p.m. ET until the Tokyo
fix at 9:55 a.m. local time (“pre-T”), followed by the post-Tokyo window (“post-T”) that runs
until 2:00 a.m. ET (when European markets open). The pre-ECB fix window (“pre-E”) spans
the period between European opening hours until the ECB fix at 8:15 a.m. ET. The “interfix”
window (”E-L”) covers the period between the ECB and the London fix at 11:00 a.m. ET. The
final window spans the period after the London fix (“post-L”) starting at 11:00 a.m. ET and ending
at 5:00 p.m. ET. Thus, the intraday period is the sum of the “E-L” and the “post-L” windows
whereas the overnight period covers the “pre-T,” “post-T” and “pre-E” windows. All times are
measured in Eastern Time, taking into account daylight savings time (DST). Data is daily and
covers the sample period from January 1999 to December 2019 (5,264 daily observations). Returns
are measured as the average log changes in the mid quote for the respective currency. Positive
values imply the foreign currency appreciates versus the U.S. dollar. The dollar portfolio “DOL”
is an equal weighted average of all nine currencies in our sample.


NOTE 2: Reversal Porfolios. We compute reversal portfolios around the “Tokyo” fix and the
“Europe” fixes for each day d as reversal returns as the sum of pre- and post-fix returns as follows:


                                   ∆sTokyo
                                     d     = −∆sPre-T
                                                d     + ∆sPd ost−T                               (5)

                                ∆sEurope
                                  d      = −∆sPd re−E + ∆sPd ost−L ,                             (6)


i.e., before the Tokyo and ECB fixes we take a short position that is reversed post-Tokyo and
post-London fix respectively. For the Tokyo fix the short position is held from 5:00 p.m. ET to the
Tokyo fix at 9:55 a.m. local time (taking DST into account), and the long position is held from
the Tokyo fix until 2:00 a.m. ET. For the “Europe” window the short position is held from 2:00
a.m. ET until the ECB fix at 2:15 p.m. local time, and the long position is held starting with the
London fix at 4:00 p.m. local time until 5:00 p.m. ET. The three-hour period between the two
fixes is dropped.

                                                 38
                       pre-T     post-T     pre-E      E-L     post-L     CTC

             AUD        -7.15     4.66      -1.03     -0.13      4.86      1.20
                       (-8.24)   (3.94)    (-0.77)   (-0.10)   (3.75)    (0.44)
             CAD        -3.83     3.78      -1.91     -1.04      3.89      0.90
                       (-8.74)   (7.15)    (-1.92)   (-0.89)   (3.81)    (0.47)
             CHF        -3.12     3.15      -6.43      3.18      5.65     2.43
                       (-5.56)   (4.94)    (-4.19)   (2.54)    (5.19)    (1.00)
             EUR        -4.54     5.89      -8.87      1.58      6.87      0.92
                       (-8.83)   (9.29)    (-7.24)   (1.35)    (6.78)    (0.43)
             GBP        -4.75     3.19      -5.78      1.06      6.67      0.39
                       (-9.12)   (5.04)    (-4.62)   (1.04)    (7.44)    (0.20)
             JPY        -4.06     7.94      -2.61      1.56     -2.92     -0.08
                       (-5.87)   (8.22)    (-2.37)   (1.42)    (-3.03)   (-0.04)
             NOK        -4.88     7.44      -3.51     -5.08      5.40     -0.63
                       (-7.51)   (9.66)    (-2.19)   (-3.77)   (4.49)    (-0.24)
             NZD        -8.53     5.77      -0.86      1.40      4.55     2.33
                       (-8.41)   (4.99)    (-0.60)   (1.10)    (3.30)    (0.84)
             SEK        -4.53     5.44      -7.73     -0.15      6.55     -0.41
                       (-6.52)   (7.05)    (-4.93)   (-0.11)   (5.38)    (-0.16)
             DOL        -5.02     5.28      -4.21      0.34      4.63      1.02
                      (-11.69)   (9.19)    (-4.50)   (0.37)    (5.48)    (0.59)

      Table I. Intraday Returns and the Tokyo, ECB and London Fix
This table reports annualized average returns for the intraday periods around the Tokyo,
ECB and London fixes. t-statistics are reported in parentheses. See note 1 for the definitions
of the intraday periods. The sample period is January 1999 to December 2019. The data is
sourced from Refinitiv’s Tick History (RTH) database.




                                             39
                        pre-T     post-T     pre-E          E-L       post-L    CTC

              99-04     -4.02      6.29      -8.57          3.36       7.05      4.10
                       (-5.01)    (6.68)    (-4.80)       (2.01)      (4.57)   (1.27)
              04-09     -6.01      6.96      -4.68         -0.88       4.54     -0.07
                       (-6.15)    (5.61)    (-2.27)       (-0.39)     (2.48)   (-0.02)
              09-14     -9.05      6.50      -0.92          0.93       5.20      2.66
                       (-8.60)    (4.43)    (-0.40)       (0.48)      (2.52)   (0.65)
              14-19     -1.59      2.08      -3.14         -1.52       2.16     -2.01
                       (-2.64)    (2.25)    (-2.28)       (-1.02)     (1.62)   (-0.76)

           Table II. Intraday Dollar Portfolio Returns Year-by-Year
This table reports annualized average returns for the intraday periods around the Tokyo,
ECB and London fixes for the dollar portfolio for a set of equally spaced sample periods.
See note 1 for the definitions of the intraday periods. t-statistics are reported in parentheses.
The sample period is January 1999 to December 2019. The data is sourced from Refinitiv’s
Tick History (RTH) database.


                             pre-T     post-T         pre-E         E-L     post-L    CTC

        RTH Forwards         -4.58       5.78          -8.57        1.55     6.69      0.88
                           (-10.31)    (10.45)        (-7.82)     (1.42)    (7.56)   (0.45)
        CME Futures          -4.06       5.61          -5.06        0.36     1.88     -1.27
                            (-8.93)    (10.00)        (-5.81)     (0.38)    (2.60)   (-0.79)
        ICE Futures          -2.09       2.53          -2.68        1.09     2.49      1.34
                            (-3.73)     (5.34)        (-3.27)     (1.59)    (4.58)   (1.02)
        RM VWAPS             -1.70       3.88          -6.87       -0.07     4.18     -0.59
                            (-3.89)     (6.06)        (-5.12)     (-0.06)   (4.02)   (-0.26)

          Table III. Intraday Returns for Across Different Data Sets
This table reports annualized average returns for different intraday periods around the Tokyo,
ECB and London fixes for the dollar portfolio using different data sets. t-statistics are
reported in parentheses. Intraday returns are computed from RTH forwards, CME futures,
intercontinental-ICE dollar index (DX) futures and VWAPs from Refinitiv Matching (RM).
See note 1 for the definitions of the intraday periods. Dollar portfolio returns from CME
futures are computed from the EUR, GBP and JPY, which are the only liquid pairs over an
extended sample period. The sample periods are January 1999 to December 2019 for RTH
forwards, January 2006 to December 2019 for CME futures, January 1999 to December 2019
for ICE, and June 2006 to December 2019 for RM.


                                                 40
                                                             Panel A: RM

                                                  AUD                                            GBP

                               pre-T     post-T   pre-E     pre-L     post-L   pre-T    post-T   pre-E     pre-L     post-L

           Fraction positive    0.55       0.57     0.48      0.47     0.52      0.51    0.55      0.48     0.48      0.54
           Probability           0.00     0.00      0.01      0.00     0.01     0.10     0.00     0.03       0.04      0.00
           Mean                  8.34     24.26    -7.92    -26.42     2.53     1.47    14.45      2.36     -3.44     22.51
           t-stat              (3.78)    (6.60)   (-1.86)   (-4.25)   (0.71)   (0.92)   (6.05)   (0.31)    (-0.34)   (5.03)
           Median                9.33     20.81   -10.22    -19.44     6.55     1.57     8.06    -12.98    -20.61    18.63
           z -score            (5.70)    (7.90)   (-2.75)   (-3.40)   (2.51)   (1.66)   (6.33)   (-2.24)   (-2.04)   (4.81)
           Std. Dev.           129.21    214.78   248.64    363.52    208.60   93.48    139.73   450.65    592.66    261.49
           Skewness             -0.05     -0.35    -0.21     -0.23     -0.46    -0.19    0.55      0.61      0.36     0.18
           Kurtosis              7.63      7.96     6.34      5.34     9.41    18.63    12.84     10.52      7.54      8.02

                                                             Panel B: CME

                                                  AUD                                            GBP

41                             pre-T     post-T   pre-E     pre-L     post-L   pre-T    post-T   pre-E     pre-L     post-L

           Fraction positive   0.46       0.50      0.49      0.48      0.50     0.48    0.50      0.49     0.49      0.50
           Probability          0.00     0.60       0.40      0.07      0.88     0.04    0.95      0.28      0.10      0.80
           Mean                -3.14      0.55      0.35     -2.15     -0.16    -1.85   -0.35     -3.31     -7.27     -1.46
           t-stat              -4.39      0.49      0.19     -0.64     -0.07    -2.51   -0.44     -1.13     -1.44     -0.31
           Median              -1.97      0.18     -0.97     -4.69     -0.15    -0.73    0.00     -2.07     -5.93      0.60
           z -stat             -4.34      0.53     -0.84     -1.83     -0.15    -2.06   -0.07     -1.08     -1.62      0.26
           Std. Dev.           41.78     65.88    109.64    196.05    129.82   43.12    46.75    170.79    294.41    272.16
           Skewness            -1.45     -0.27      0.09     -2.33     -2.96   -21.56   -2.73     -0.89     -0.54      1.12
           Kurtosis            34.30     10.32    32.48     81.32      70.94   866.87   68.23     28.71     37.19    153.96


                                        Table IV. Summary Statistics: Order Flow
     At the daily frequency, each panel reports the fraction of order flow observations that are positive, the p-value
     from a two-sided test of observing order flow in one direction under the null hypothesis of a random walk, as well
     as mean, median, z-score, standard deviation, skewness, and kurtosis. The z-score refers to a non-parametric test
     assessing if the median is different from zero. Order flow is defined as buyer- minus seller-initiated volume measured
     in million U.S. dollars. See note 1 for the definitions of the intraday periods. The sample period is June 2006 to
     December 2019. Data in Panel A is sourced from Refinitiv’s Matching (RM) trading platform, while results in
     Panel B are based on data from CME.
                                   AUD                             GBP

                        Tokyo          Europe           Tokyo          Europe

          OFpreT OK     -28.13                         -25.86
                        (-7.09)                        (-3.57)
          OFpreECB                 -7.22                           -3.54
                                  (-2.79)                         (-3.77)
          OFpreLON                            -9.28                          -4.16
                                             (-5.88)                        (-5.67)
          OFpost        104.39    106.26     108.75     61.01      46.86     47.66
                        (27.45)   (24.40)    (24.95)   (11.78)    (18.09)   (18.43)
          adj-R2          0.38     0.30        0.30      0.16       0.21      0.22
          Obs            3,406     3,406      3,406     3,406      3,406     3,406

                      Table V. Return Reversal Regressions
This table reports results referring to the regression model

                          ∆spost
                            t    = α + β1 OFtpre + β2 OFtpost + εt ,

where ∆spost
          t   refers to log spot returns, based on volume-weighted average prices (VWAP),
during the post-fix hours for the Australian dollar (AU D) or the British pound (GBP )
on day t, and OFtpreT OK , OFtpreECB , and OFtpreLON measure the order flow in the pre-fix
hours of the Tokyo and European fixes, respectively. OFtpost is order flow during the post-fix
hours. Returns are measured in basis points. Order flow is defined as buyer- minus seller-
initiated volume and is measured in billion U.S. dollar. See note 1 for the definitions of
the intraday periods. The sample period is June 2006 to December 2019. The intercept is
omitted to preserve space. Parentheses report t-statistics based on Newey-West adjusted
standard errors. All data is sourced from Refinitiv’s Matching (RM) trading platform.




                                             42
                                Panel A: CME Order Flow                                  Panel B: CME & RM Order Flow

                           AUD                           GBP                           AUD                            GBP

                 Tokyo          Europe         Tokyo          Europe         Tokyo          Europe         Tokyo          Europe

     OFpreT
       CM E
            OK
                 -49.08                        -22.35                        -39.81                        -15.06
                 (-5.11)                       (-2.20)                       (-4.70)                       (-1.86)
     OFpreT
       RM
            OK
                                                                             -13.73                        -13.29
                                                                             (-5.08)                       (-6.50)
     OFpreECB
       CM E                 -1.55                         0.16                          -2.88                         -0.09
                           (-0.38)                       (0.09)                        (-0.81)                       (-0.05)
     OFpreECB
       RM                                                                               -4.89                         -1.89
                                                                                       (-2.73)                       (-2.75)
     OFpreLON
       CM E                           -3.82                         -0.62                          -3.26                         -1.04
                                     (-1.50)                       (-0.54)                       (-1.59)                       (-0.89)
     OFpreLON
       RM                                                                                          -6.74                         -2.94
                                                                                                 (-5.81)                       (-5.55)
     OFpost
       CM E      116.23    19.90     21.79     90.41      -0.13     0.16      68.98     19.44     18.66     63.13      1.11       1.15
43               (12.97)   (3.48)    (3.69)    (8.92)    (-0.09)   (0.11)     (9.32)    (4.31)    (4.25)    (9.98)    (0.93)    (0.91)
     OFpost
       RM                                                                     63.39     76.34     78.17     36.08     33.69     34.32
                                                                             (28.97)   (27.49)   (27.95)   (19.81)   (22.41)   (22.97)
     adj-R2       0.10      0.01      0.01     0.13      -0.00     -0.00       0.41      0.33      0.33      0.29      0.20       0.20
     Obs         3,408     3,408     3,408     3,408     3,408     3,408      3,406     3,406     3,406     3,406     3,406     3,406


                               Table VI. Return Reversal Regressions: CME Futures
     This table reports results referring to the regression model

                           ∆spost              pre           post          pre         post
                             t,CM E = α + γ1 OFt,CM E + γ2 OFt,CM E + β1 OFt,RM + β2 OFt,RM + εt ,

     where ∆spost
             t,CM E refers to log futures returns, based on volume-weighted average prices (VWAP), during the post-
                                                                                           preT OK     preECB
     fix hours of the Australian dollar (AU D) or the British pound (GBP ) on day t; and OFt,j     , OFt,j    and
         preLON                                                                                                    post
     OFt,j      measure the order flow in the pre-fix hours of the Tokyo fix and London fix, respectively. OFt,j        is
     order flow during the post-fix hours. The subscript j, where j ∈ {CM E, RM }, indicates the source of the order
     flow measures. Returns are measured in basis points. Order flow is defined as buyer- minus seller-initiated volume
     measured in billion U.S. dollars. See note 1 for the definitions of the intraday periods. The sample period is June
     2006 to December 2019. For regressions in the left panel (Panel A), the coefficients β1 and β2 are restricted to
     zero. The intercept coefficient is omitted to preserve space. Parentheses report t-statistics based on Newey-West
     adjusted standard errors. Data is sourced from Refinitiv’s Matching (RM) and CME’s trading platform.
                                                               Panel A: Tokyo
                                   AUD      CAD       CHF       EUR      GBP       JPY      NOK       NZD      SEK       DOL
               Fraction positive     0.56    0.57      0.55      0.57     0.56      0.57      0.58     0.56     0.56     0.59
               Probability          0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
               Mean                11.82      7.61     6.27     10.44      7.94    12.00     12.33    14.31     9.98     10.30
               t-stat              (8.03)   (10.68)   (7.19)   (12.60)   (9.87)   (10.12)   (11.93)   (9.29)   (9.56)   (14.46)
               Median              13.36      6.67     4.21      8.22     6.53     10.50      9.94    12.74     7.33      9.04
               z -score            (8.47)   (10.47)   (6.93)    (9.85)   (9.21)   (10.49)   (11.27)   (8.63)   (8.96)   (13.32)
               Std. Dev.             6.72    3.26      3.98      3.79     3.68      5.42      4.72     7.04     4.77      3.25
               Skewness             -0.33     0.77     0.80      0.25     -0.24    -0.05      0.47     0.02     2.30      0.02
               Kurtosis            10.48     16.67    34.22      8.67    38.30     15.35     17.70     7.40    55.60      8.46
                                                               Panel B: Europe

44                                 AUD      CAD       CHF       EUR      GBP       JPY      NOK       NZD      SEK       DOL
               Fraction positive    0.51     0.52      0.54     0.56      0.55      0.51     0.52      0.51      0.55    0.55
               Probability          0.04     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.35      0.00      0.04      0.00    0.00
               Mean                 5.91     5.82     12.08    15.76     12.48     -0.31     8.92      5.43    14.31     8.85
               t-stat              (3.20)   (4.01)    (6.81)   (9.95)    (7.96)   (-0.21)   (4.51)    (2.70)   (7.25)   (7.03)
               Median               4.03     4.35     10.73    13.64     11.43      1.12     6.21      4.50    14.13     9.16
               z -score            (2.04)   (3.45)    (6.23)   (8.55)    (7.01)   (0.94)    (2.92)    (2.07)   (6.77)   (7.01)
               Std. Dev.            8.43     6.63       8.11    7.24      7.17      6.77     9.04      9.20     9.02     5.75
               Skewness             0.14     0.36      -0.63    0.01      0.30     -0.18     0.03      0.08     -0.08    0.01
               Kurtosis            10.41     7.39     36.26     6.87      6.94      6.79     6.01      8.23      6.25    6.61

                               Table VII. Statistical Properties of Return Reversals
     At the daily frequency, each panel reports the fraction of return observations that are positive, the p-value from a
     two-sided test of observing returns in one direction under the null hypothesis of a random walk, as well as mean
     (annualized), median (annualized), z-score, standard deviation (annualized), skewness, and kurtosis. The z-score
     refers to a non-parametric test assessing if the median is different from zero. Panels A and B report summary
     statistics for the Tokyo and Europe fix reversal portfolios, respectively. See note 2 for the definitions of the reversal
     portfolios. The sample period is January 1999 to December 2019. The data is sourced from Refinitiv’s Tick History
     (RTH) database.
                    Tokyo     Europe     Tokyo     Europe     Tokyo     Europe     Tokyo     Europe        Tokyo    Europe

        VIXt−1       0.24       0.14                                                                        0.23     0.10
                    (9.54)     (3.39)                                                                      (8.63)   (2.62)
        IRDi,t−1                          7.91       3.08                                                   5.69     2.36
                                         (6.71)     (2.31)                                                 (4.80)   (1.65)
        EQDi,t                                                  0.26      2.20
                                                               (0.74)    (1.54)
        EQU
          t
            S                                                                       0.85           2.84     0.98     2.03
                                                                                   (3.67)        (1.96)    (4.95)   (2.22)
        EQi,t                                                                       0.27          -1.63
45                                                                                 (0.54)        (-1.14)
        adj-R2       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00           0.00     0.01     0.00
        Obs         47,358     47,358    45,081     45,081    45,081     45,081    42,192        42,192    42,183   42,183

                              Table VIII. Reversal Portfolios and Economic Factors
     This table reports results to the following fixed-effects panel regression model:

                                    ∆sji,t = αi + β1 V IXt−1 + β2 IRDi,t−1 + β3 EQi,t + εi,t ,

     where ∆sji,t refers to portfolio reversal returns around the Tokyo (j = T OK) or European fixes (j = EU R), and
     the right-hand side variables include the lagged VIX volatility index (V IXt−1 ), lagged short-term interest rate
     differentials between the U.S. and country i (IRDi,t−1 ), and an equity factor (EQi,t ), that refers to either the
     contemporaneous equity return differentials between the U.S. and country i (EQi,t ), or equity returns in country i
     (EQi,t ) or equity returns in the U.S. (EQU  S
                                                t ). Portfolio reversal returns are measured in basis points. t-statistics are
     in parentheses based on robust standard errors. See note 2 for the definitions of the reversal portfolios. Coefficients
     of currency fixed effects are omitted to save space. Data is daily and covers the sample period from January 1999
     to December 2019.
                                         Panel A: Tokyo

                        EUR                          GBP                           JPY

               pre    post    pre+post      pre    post    pre+post      pre     post    pre+post

AvgBA,100%    -3.51   -1.63     -5.14      0.29    -0.58     -6.92      -5.52    -1.02      -6.54
AvgBA,50%     0.52    2.13       2.65      4.18     2.96     0.51       -0.73     3.46       2.73
AvgBA,0%      4.55    5.89      10.44      4.75     3.18     7.94        4.06     7.93      12.00

SRBA,100%     -1.98   -0.97     -1.66      -0.06   -0.11     -2.19      -2.12    -0.50      -1.42
SRBA,50%      -0.28    0.33      0.39      0.20    0.12      -0.18      -0.60     0.52      0.29
SRBA,0%       1.43    1.63       2.45       1.50   0.69      1.84        0.91    1.53       1.99

                                         Panel B: Europe

                        EUR                          GBP                           JPY

               pre    post    pre+post      pre    post    pre+post      pre     post    pre+post

AvgBA,100%    2.02    -0.50      1.52      -0.86   -0.66     -1.51      -6.04   -12.19     -18.23
AvgBA,50%     5.45    3.19      8.64        2.46    3.00     5.47       -1.71    -7.56      -9.27
AvgBA,0%      8.88    6.88      15.75       5.79    6.66     12.45       2.61    -2.92      -0.31

SRBA,100%     0.15    -0.36      0.05      -0.36   -0.45     -0.38      -1.43    -3.03      -2.86
SRBA,50%      0.76    0.43       1.03       0.23    0.44     0.60       -0.57    -1.98      -1.54
SRBA,0%       1.37    1.23       2.01       0.81    1.34     1.57        0.29    -0.93      -0.22

      Table IX. Trading Around the Fixes Including Transaction Costs
 This table reports annualized average returns (Avg) and Sharpe ratios (SR) for different
 intraday periods around the Tokyo and Europe fixes for the euro, pound and yen, taking
 transaction costs into account. This means that foreign currencies are bought at the bid
 and sold at the ask. We report results for the pre-fix and post-fix periods, and for the
 combination of the two. See note 1 for the definitions of the intraday periods. We consider
 different degrees of reported transaction costs of indicative quotes, accounting for 100%, 50%
 and 0% of the bid-ask spread (BA). Data is daily and the sample period is January 1999 to
 December 2019.



                                              46
                                   VIII.      Figures




  4                      Tokyo Fix         ECB Fix

  2
                                                                          London Fix
  0


 -2


 -4


 -6                                                                                EUR
                                                                                   GBP
                                                                                   JPY
 -8
      17
      18
      19
      20
      21
      22
      23
      00
      01
      02
      03
      04
      05
      06
      07
      08
      09
      10
      11
      12
      13
      14
      15
      16
      17
       Figure 2. Cumulative 5-min Returns for EUR, GBP, and JPY
This figure displays cumulative average annualized 5-min returns (−∆s) over the course of a
trading day for the EUR (blue), GBP (green), and JPY (red). An increase means the foreign
currency appreciates against the U.S. dollar. The three black dashed lines at 8:55 p.m., 8:15
a.m., and 11:00 a.m. refer to the Tokyo fix, the ECB fix and the London fix, respectively.
All returns are annualized and expressed in percent. The time is measured in Eastern Time
(ET). The sample period is January 1999 to December 2019.




                                             47
                                             2                                                                                 6


                                           1.5




                                                                                                                                    Ann. avg. 5-min cum log return (in %, line)
                                                                                                                               4




 Ann. hourly avg. log return (in %, bar)
                                             1

                                                                                                                               2
                                           0.5


                                             0                                                                                 0


                                           -0.5
                                                                                                                               -2

                                            -1

                                                                                                                               -4
                                           -1.5


                                            -2                                                                                 -6
                                                  17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
                                                                               Trading Time (EST)

                                                     Figure 3. Intraday Returns Dynamics: Dollar Portfolio
This figure displays cumulative average annualized 5-min returns (−∆s) for the dollar port-
folio over the course of a trading day. An increase means the basket of foreign currencies
appreciates against the U.S. dollar. The three black dashed lines at 8:55 p.m., 8:15 a.m., and
11:00 a.m. refer to the Tokyo fix, the ECB fix and the London fix, respectively. All returns
are annualized and expressed in percent. The time is measured in Eastern Time (ET). The
sample period is January 1999 to December 2019.




                                                                                     48
                                                     Tokyo Fix   ECB Fix          London Fix                                           EUR   Tokyo Fix   ECB Fix
                                               AUD                                                                               20
                                                                                                                                       JPY                           London Fix




                                                                                               5 minute volumes (USD millions)
                                         300   GBP




       5 minute volumes (USD millions)
                                                                                                                                 18

                                         250                                                                                     16
                                                                                                                                 14
                                         200
                                                                                                                                 12
                                                                                                                                 10
                                         150
                                                                                                                                  8
                                         100                                                                                      6
                                                                                                                                  4
                                         50
                                                                                                                                  2

                                               17
                                               18
                                               19
                                               20
                                               21
                                               22
                                               23
                                               00
                                               01
                                               02
                                               03                                                                                      17
                                                                                                                                       18
                                                                                                                                       19
                                                                                                                                       20
                                                                                                                                       21
                                                                                                                                       22
                                                                                                                                       23
                                                                                                                                       00
                                                                                                                                       01
                                                                                                                                       02
                                                                                                                                       03
                                                                                                                                       04
                                               04
                                               05
                                               06
                                               07
                                               08
                                               09
                                               10
                                               11
                                               12
                                               13
                                               14
                                               15                                                                                      05
                                                                                                                                       06
                                                                                                                                       07
                                                                                                                                       08
                                                                                                                                       09
                                                                                                                                       10
                                                                                                                                       11
                                                                                                                                       12
                                                                                                                                       13
                                                                                                                                       14
                                                                                                                                       15
                                               16
                                               17                                                                                      16
                                                                                                                                       17
                                                                 Time (ET)                                                                               Time (ET)
                                                     (a) AUD & GBP (RM)                                                                       (b) EUR & JPY (RM)


                                                     Tokyo Fix   ECB Fix          London Fix                                     600         Tokyo Fix    ECB Fix    London Fix
                                               AUD                                                                                     EUR
49                                             GBP                                                                                     JPY




       5 minute volumes (USD millions)                                                         5 minute volumes (USD millions)
                                         120
                                                                                                                                 500

                                         100
                                                                                                                                 400
                                         80
                                                                                                                                 300
                                         60

                                                                                                                                 200
                                         40

                                         20                                                                                      100


                                               17
                                               18
                                               19
                                               20
                                               21
                                               22
                                               23
                                               00
                                               01
                                               02
                                               03
                                               04                                                                                      17
                                                                                                                                       18
                                                                                                                                       19
                                                                                                                                       20
                                                                                                                                       21
                                                                                                                                       22
                                                                                                                                       23
                                                                                                                                       00
                                                                                                                                       01
                                                                                                                                       02
                                                                                                                                       03
                                                                                                                                       04
                                               05
                                               06
                                               07
                                               08
                                               09
                                               10
                                               11
                                               12
                                               13
                                               14
                                               15
                                               16                                                                                      05
                                                                                                                                       06
                                                                                                                                       07
                                                                                                                                       08
                                                                                                                                       09
                                                                                                                                       10
                                                                                                                                       11
                                                                                                                                       12
                                                                                                                                       13
                                                                                                                                       14
                                                                                                                                       15
                                                                                                                                       16
                                               17                                                                                      17
                                                                 Time (ET)                                                                               Time (ET)
                                                     (c) AUD & GBP (CME)                                                                     (d) EUR & JPY (CME)

                                                                             Figure 4. Intraday Volumes
     The figures show the average volume dynamics in each 5-minute interval over the course of the trading day for the
     Australian dollar and the British pound or the euro and Japanese yen on Refinitiv’s Matching (Panels (a) and (b))
     and CME’s (Panels (c) and (d)) trading platform. Average volume is measured in million U.S. dollars. The sample
     period is June 2006 to December 2019. Data is from Refinitiv’s Matching (RM) and CME’s trading platforms.
                    6                                                      6


                    4                                                      4

                    2                                                      2



       Order flow                                             Order flow
                    0                                                      0

                    -2                                                     -2


                    -4                                                     -4

                    -6                                                     -6

                         17
                         18
                         19
                         20
                         21
                         22
                         23
                         00
                         01
                         02
                         03
                         04                                                     17
                                                                                18
                                                                                19
                                                                                20
                                                                                21
                                                                                22
                                                                                23
                                                                                00
                                                                                01
                                                                                02
                                                                                03
                                                                                04
                         05
                         06
                         07
                         08
                         09
                         10
                         11
                         12
                         13
                         14
                         15
                         16                                                     05
                                                                                06
                                                                                07
                                                                                08
                                                                                09
                                                                                10
                                                                                11
                                                                                12
                                                                                13
                                                                                14
                                                                                15
                                                                                16
                         17                                                     17
                            (a) AUD (RM)                                           (b) GBP (RM)


                    6                                                      6
50
                    4                                                      4


                    2                                                      2



       Order flow                                             Order flow
                    0                                                      0


                    -2                                                     -2


                    -4                                                     -4


                    -6                                                     -6

                         17
                         18
                         19
                         20
                         21
                         22
                         23
                         00
                         01
                         02
                         03                                                     17
                                                                                18
                                                                                19
                                                                                20
                                                                                21
                                                                                22
                                                                                23
                                                                                00
                                                                                01
                                                                                02
                                                                                03
                                                                                04
                         04
                         05
                         06
                         07
                         08
                         09
                         10
                         11
                         12
                         13
                         14
                         15                                                     05
                                                                                06
                                                                                07
                                                                                08
                                                                                09
                                                                                10
                                                                                11
                                                                                12
                                                                                13
                                                                                14
                                                                                15
                         16
                         17                                                     16
                                                                                17
                           (c) AUD (CME)                                          (d) GBP (CME)

                                           Figure 5. Order Flow Dynamics
     The figures show the median order flow dynamics in every hourly interval over the course of the trading day for the
     Australian dollar and the British pound on Refinitiv’s Matching (Panels (a) and (b)) and CME’s (Panels (c) and
     (d)) trading platform. Order flow is defined as buyer- minus seller-initiated traded volume, measured in million
     U.S. dollar. The sample period is June 2006 to December 2019. Data is from Refinitiv’s Matching (RM) and
     CME’s trading platforms.
                                      14                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30
                                                             EUR                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EUR
                                                             GBP                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GBP                                                                                                                                                          26.89
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12.26
                                      12                     JPY                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JPY
                                                             DOL                                                                                                                                                                                                  25                     DOL


                                      10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8.85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8.60

        Return to                         8                                                                                                                                                                                         Return to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  15

      $1 Investment                                                                                                                                                                                                               $1 Investment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      13.54
                                          6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.25

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10
                                          4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6.35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5
                                          2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.94
                                          0                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0

                                              1999            2001           2003           2005            2007            2009            2011            2013            2015            2017            2019                                                          1999            2001           2003           2005            2007            2009            2011            2013            2015            2017            2019

                                                                       (a) Total Return Index: Tokyo Fix                                                                                                                                                                                         (b) Total Return Index: Europe Fix

                                    40                                                                                                                                                                                                                          40



51                                  30                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30




      Total Return by Year (in %)                                                                                                                                                                                                 Total Return by Year (in %)
                                    20                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20



                                    10                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10



                                     0                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0



                                    -10                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -10


                                                            pre-T + post-T                                                                                                                                                                                                              pre-E+post-L
                                    -20                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -20

                                                     1999    2000    2001   2002    2003   2004    2005   2006     2007   2008     2009   2010     2011   2012     2013   2014     2015   2016     2017   2018     2019                                                          1999    2000    2001   2002    2003   2004    2005   2006     2007   2008     2009   2010     2011   2012     2013   2014     2015   2016     2017   2018     2019

                                                                                    (c) DOL around Tokyo Fix                                                                                                                                                                                                   (d) DOL around Europe Fix

                                                 Figure 6. Total Return Indices and Year-By-Year Performance: Trading the W
     The figures show the performance of a trading strategy around the Tokyo and ECB/London fixes, where an investor
     takes a short position during the pre-fix and a long position during the post-fix, respectively. Panels (a) and (b)
     show the total return indices for the three major currencies (EUR, GBP, JPY) and the dollar portfolio (DOL) with
     an initial investment of one U.S. dollar. Panels (c) and (d) show the total returns split year by year for the dollar
     portfolio. The sample period is January 1999 to December 2019.
                         2.4
                                            EUR
                                            GBP
                         2.2                JPY


                             2


                         1.8
           Return to
                                                                                                                              1.77
                                                                                                                              1.74


                         1.6

         $1 Investment
                         1.4


                         1.2
                                                                                                                              1.11

                             1


                         0.8

                                    1999     2001     2003        2005    2007    2009    2011    2013   2015   2017   2019

                                                             (a) Total Return Index: Tokyo Fix

                         7
                                           EUR
                                           GBP
                                                                                                                              6.08
                         6                 JPY



                         5



           Return to     4



         $1 Investment
                                                                                                                              3.13
                         3


                         2


                         1

                                                                                                                              0.14
                         0

                                 1999      2001     2003        2005     2007    2009    2011    2013    2015   2017   2019

                                                             (b) Total Return Index: Europe Fix

 Figure 7. Total Return Indices: Trading the W with Transaction Costs
The figures show the performance of a trading strategy around the Tokyo and ECB/London
fixes, where an investor takes a short position during the pre-fix and a long position during the
post-fix, respectively. Panel (a) shows the total return indices for the three major currencies
(EUR, GBP, JPY) with an initial investment of one U.S. dollar around the Tokyo fix. Panel
(b) shows the total return indices for the three major currencies (EUR, GBP, JPY) with an
initial investment of one U.S. dollar around the Europe fixes. We use 50% of the reported
bid-ask spread on RTH as a proxy of transaction 52 costs. The sample period is January 1999
to December 2019.
                                        References

Adrian, T., and P. Xie (2020): “The Non-U.S. Bank Demand for U.S. Dollar Assets,” Discussion
  paper, International Monetary Fund.

Andrade, S. C., C. Chang, and M. S. Seasholes (2008): “Trading Imbalances, Predictable
  Reversals, and Cross-Stock Price Pressure,” Journal of Financial Economics, 88(2), 406–423.

Berger, D. W., A. P. Chaboud, S. V. Chernenko, E. Howorka, and J. H. Wright (2008):
  “Order Flow and Exchange Rate Dynamics in Electronic Brokerage System Data,” Journal of
  International Economics, 75(1), 93–109.

BIS (2018): “Monitoring of Fast-Paced Electronic Markets,” Discussion paper, Bank for Interna-
  tional Settlements.

        (2019): “Triennial Central Bank Survey–Foreign Exchange Turnover in April 2019,” Dis-
  cussion paper, Bank for International Settlements.

Breedon, F., and A. Ranaldo (2013): “Intraday Patterns in FX Returns and Order Flow,”
  Journal of Money, Credit and Banking, 45(5), 953–965.

Breedon, F., and P. Vitale (2010): “An Empirical Study of Portfolio-Balance and Information
  Effects of Order Flow on Exchange Rates,” Journal of International Money and Finance, 29(3),
  504–524.

Brunnermeier, M., S. Nagel, and L. H. Pedersen (2009): “Carry Trades and Currency
  Crashes,” NBER Macroeconomics Annual 2008, 23, 313–347.

Campbell, J. Y., S. J. Grossman, and J. Wang (1993): “Trading Volume and Serial Corre-
  lation in Stock Returns,” Quarterly Journal of Economics, 108(4), 905–939.

Cao, J., T. Chordia, and X. Zhan (2021): “The Calendar Effects of the Idiosyncratic-Volatility
  Puzzle: A Tale of Two Days?,” forthcoming, Management Science.



                                              53
Cespa, G., A. Gargano, S. J. Riddiough, and L. Sarno (2021): “Foreign Exchange Volume,”
  forthcoming, Review of Financial Studies.

Chaboud, A. P., S. V. Chernenko, and J. H. Wright (2007): “Trading Activity and Ex-
  change Rates in High-Frequency EBS Data,” International Finance Discussion Papers 903, Board
  of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (U.S.).

Cornett, M. M., T. V. Schwarz, and A. C. Szakmary (1995): “Seasonalities and Intraday
  Return Patterns in the Foreign Currency Futures Market,” Journal of Banking and Finance,
  19(5), 843–869.

Du, W., A. Tepper, and A. Verdelhan (2018): “Deviations from Covered Interest Rate
  Parity,” The Journal of Finance, 73(3), 915–957.

ECB (2019): “Framework for the Euro Foreign Exchange Reference Rates,” Discussion paper,
  European Central Bank.

Evans, M. (2018): “Forex Trading and the WMR Fix,” Journal of Banking and Finance, 87,
  233–247.

Evans, M. D. D., and R. K. Lyons (2002): “Order Flow and Exchange Rate Dynamics,” Journal
  of Political Economy, 110(1), 170–180.

Evans, M. D. D., P. O’Neill, D. Rime, and J. Saakvitne (2018): “Fixing the Fix? Assessing
  the Effectiveness of the 4pm Fix Benchmark,” FCA Occasional Paper.

Foucault, T., M. Pagano, and A. Röell (2013): Market Liquidity: Theory, Evidence, and
  Policy. Oxford University Press.

Froot, K. A., and T. Ramadorai (2005): “Currency Returns, Intrinsic Value, and Institutional-
  Investor Flows,” The Journal of Finance, 60(3), 1535–1566.

FSB (2014): “Foreign Exchange Benchmarks,” Financial Stability Board, Final Report.




                                              54
Gilmore, S., and F. Hayashi (2011): “Emerging Market Currency Excess Returns,” American
  Economic Journal: Macroeconomics, 3(4), 85 – 111.

Glosten, L. R., and P. R. Milgrom (1985): “Bid, Ask, and Transaction Prices in a Specialist
  Market with Heterogeneously Informed Traders,” Journal of Financial Economics, 14(1), 71–100.

Grossman, S. J., and M. H. Miller (1988): “Liquidity and Market Structure,” The Journal of
  Finance, 43(3), 617–633.

Hasbrouck, J. (2007): Empirical Market Microstructure: The Institutions, Economics, and
  Econometrics of Securities Trading. Oxford University Press.

Hau, H., and H. Rey (2006): “Exchange Rates, Equity Prices, and Capital Flows,” The Review
  of Financial Studies, 19(1), 273–317.

Ito, T., and M. Yamada (2016): “Puzzles in the Forex Tokyo “Fixing”: Order Imbalances and
  Biased Pricing by Banks,” Discussion paper, Center on Japanese Economy and Business, No.
  352.

Jiang, Z., A. Krishnamurthy, and H. Lustig (2021): “Foreign Safe Asset Demand and the
  Dollar Exchange Rate,” The Journal of Finance, 76(3), 1049–1089.

Keamer, C. (1994): “Macroeconomic Seasonality and the January Effect,” The Journal of Fi-
  nance, 49(5), 1883–1891.

Kyle, A. S. (1985): “Continuous Auctions and Insider Trading,” Econometrica, 53(6), 1315–1335.

Lou, D., H. Yan, and J. Zhang (2013): “Anticipated and Repeated Shocks in Liquid Markets,”
  The Review of Financial Studies, 26(8), 1891–1912.

Lustig, H., N. Roussanov, and A. Verdelhan (2011): “Common Risk Factors in Currency
  Markets,” Review of Financial Studies, 24(11), 3731–3777.

Melvin, M., and J. Prins (2015): “Equity Hedging and Exchange Rates at the London 4 p.m.
  Fix,” Journal of Financial Markets, 22, 50–72.

                                              55
Nagel, S. (2012): “Evaporating Liquidity,” The Review of Financial Studies, 25(7), 2005–2039.

Pettengill, G. N. (2003): “A Survey of the Monday Effect Literature,” Quarterly Journal of
  Business and Economics, 42(3/4), 3–27.

Ranaldo, A. (2009): “Segmentation and Time-of-Day Patterns in Foreign Exchange Markets,”
  Journal of Banking and Finance, 33, 2199–2206.

Ranaldo, A., and F. Somogyi (2021): “Asymmetric Information Risk in FX Markets,” Journal
  of Financial Economics, 140(2), 391–411.

Sigaux, J.-D. (2018): “Trading Ahead of Treasury Auctions,” ECB Working Paper Series, No
  2208.

Stoll, H. R. (1978): “The Supply of Dealer Services in Securities Markets,” The Journal of
  Finance, 33(4), 1133–1151.

Vayanos, D. (1999): “Strategic Trading and Welfare in a Dynamic Market,” The Review of
  Economic Studies, 66(2), 219–254.

          (2001): “Strategic Trading in a Dynamic Noisy Market,” The Journal of Finance, 56(1),
  131–171.

Vayanos, D., and J. Wang (2009): “Liquidity and Asset Prices: A Unified Framework,” Discus-
  sion paper, National Bureau of Economic Research.




                                              56
