Christopher Polk, Dong Lou and Spyros Skouras
A tug of war: overnight versus intraday
expected returns

Article (Accepted version)
(Refereed)


Original citation:
Polk, Christopher and Lou, Dong and Skouras, Spyros (2018) A tug of war: overnight versus
intraday expected returns. Journal of Financial Economics. ISSN 0304-405X (In Press)
© 2018 Elsevier B.V.
CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0

This version available at: http://eprints.lse.ac.uk/87481/
Available in LSE Research Online: April 2018
LSE has developed LSE Research Online so that users may access research output of the
School. Copyright © and Moral Rights for the papers on this site are retained by the individual
authors and/or other copyright owners. Users may download and/or print one copy of any
article(s) in LSE Research Online to facilitate their private study or for non-commercial research.
You may not engage in further distribution of the material or use it for any profit-making activities
or any commercial gain. You may freely distribute the URL (http://eprints.lse.ac.uk) of the LSE
Research Online website.

This document is the author’s final accepted version of the journal article. There may be
differences between this version and the published version. You are advised to consult the
publisher’s version if you wish to cite from it.
    A Tug of War: Overnight Versus Intraday
              Expected Returns


             Dong Lou, Christopher Polk, and Spyros Skouras


                                    First draft: August 2014
                                    This version: March 2018




     Lou: Department of Finance, London School of Economics, London WC2A 2AE, UK and CEPR. Email:
d.lou@lse.ac.uk. Polk: Department of Finance, London School of Economics, London WC2A 2AE, UK
and CEPR. Email: c.polk@lse.ac.uk. Skouras: Athens University of Economics and Business. Email: sk-
ouras@aueb.gr. We are grateful to John Campbell, Randy Cohen, ML Cooper, Josh Coval, Kent Daniel,
Roger Edelen, Joey Engelberg, Andrea Frazzini, Cam Harvey, Mike Hertzel, Robert Hodrick, Narasimhan
Jegadeesh, Marcin Kacperczyk, Ralph Koijen, Toby Moskowitz, Paul Tetlock, Sheridan Titman, Dimitri
Vayanos, Tuomo Vuolteenaho and seminar participants at Cass Business School, Duisenberg School of Fi-
nance and Tinbergen Institute, Hong Kong University, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology,
IDC Herzliya, IESE Business School, Imperial College, Leeds Business School, London Business School,
London School of Economics, Luxembourg School of Finance, Manchester Business School, Renmin Univer-
sity, University of Bristol, University of Minho, University of Minnesota, University of Southern California,
University of Zurich, 2014 Financial Research Association Conference, 2015 Adam Smith Asset Pricing Con-
ference, 2015 Crete Conference on Research on Economic Theory and Econometrics, 2015 NBER Behavioral
Finance Meeting, 2015 NBER Asset Pricing Meeting, 2015 Western Finance Association Annual Meeting,
2018 American Finance Association Annual Meeting, ArrowStreet Capital, Jump Trading, London Quant
Group, and Point72 Asset Management for helpful comments. We thank Andrea Frazzini, Ken French, and
Sophia Li for providing data used in the analysis, Huaizhi Chen and Michela Verardo for assistance with
TAQ and Conrad Landis for assistance with TRTH. Financial support from the Paul Woolley Centre at the
LSE is gratefully acknowledged.
   A Tug of War: Overnight Versus Intraday
             Expected Returns


                                         Abstract

    We link investor heterogeneity to the persistence of the overnight and intraday compo-
nents of returns. We document strong overnight and intraday …rm-level return continuation
along with an o¤setting cross-period reversal e¤ect, all of which lasts for years. We look for
a similar tug of war in the returns of 14 trading strategies, …nding in all cases that pro…ts
are either earned entirely overnight (for reversal and a variety of momentum strategies) or
entirely intraday, typically with pro…ts of opposite signs across these components. We ar-
gue that this tug of war should reduce the e¤ectiveness of clienteles pursuing the strategy.
Indeed, the smoothed spread between the overnight and intraday return components of a
strategy generally forecasts time variation in that strategy’s close-to-close performance in a
manner consistent with that interpretation. Finally, we link cross-sectional and time-series
variation in the decomposition of momentum pro…ts to a speci…c institutional tug of war.

JEL classi…cation: G02, G12, G23, N22
1       Introduction
A textbook approach to asset pricing uses the representative investor framework in which
agents are assumed to be essentially identical. Though elegant and intuitive, a large body
of empirical research has documented failures of this paradigm to explain stylized market
facts (Cochrane 2004, Campbell forthcoming). Based on those failures, a natural extension
is to allow for investor heterogeneity.1 However, since heterogeneity may a¤ect asset prices
in a variety of (unobservable) ways and since the speci…c di¤erences studied in the prior
literature provide only a modest improvement in explanatory power, it remains challenging to
understand what investor di¤erences are particularly important and exactly why (Cochrane
2017).
    We provide new insights to these issues by introducing a novel way to measure the
importance of heterogeneity in asset markets. Our starting point is that one may be able
to identify the relevance of di¤erent types of agents simply through the fact that they tend
to trade at di¤erent times during the day. For example, and as the primary focus in our
analysis, some investors may prefer to trade at or near the morning open while others may
prefer to trade during the rest of the day up to and including the market close. Since
these two periods— when the market is open vs. when it is closed— di¤er along several key
dimensions, including information ‡ow, price impact, and borrowing costs, it seems likely
that many aspects of investor heterogeneity that might be relevant for asset pricing also
manifest themselves as a tendency to trade in one of these periods rather than the other.
In this light, the presence of “overnight” and “intraday” clienteles seems a reasonable and
perhaps even natural starting point.
    We thus view the overnight and intraday components of returns as potentially re‡ecting
the speci…c demand by the corresponding clientele. Under this interpretation, stocks that
experience relatively strong overnight or intraday returns do so in part because of temporary
demand (and thus price pressure) from the clientele in question. To the extent that clientele
order ‡ow is persistent, stocks that outperform overnight, for example, should, on average,
continue to perform relatively well overnight in the future. Furthermore, that price pressure
(to the extent that it is not fully informative) must eventually reverse, and is more likely
to do so during subsequent intraday periods when the opposing clientele dominates market
activity. In other words, any back-and-forth, or tug of war, across the two periods re‡ects
    1
    Harrison and Kreps (1978) study how heterogeneous beliefs can a¤ect asset pricing. Constantinides and
Du¢ e (1996) study the importance of heterogeneity in investor consumption in understanding key asset
pricing facts. Garleanu and Panageas (2015) use heterogeneity in investor preferences to shed light on asset
pricing issues. He and Krishnmurthy (2013) model the importance of investor type, speci…cally focusing on
the role of intermediaries.



                                                     1
and reveals the relative importance of the overnight / intraday clienteles.
    We take this new way of thinking about markets to the data, providing the …rst study of
the persistence and reversal patterns of these basic components of close-to-close returns.2 We
show that stocks with relatively-high overnight returns over the last month have, on average,
relatively-high overnight returns as well as relatively-low intraday returns in the subsequent
month. Our …ndings are economically and statistically signi…cant; a portfolio that buys the
value-weight overnight winner decile and sells the value-weight overnight loser decile has a
three-factor overnight alpha of 3.47% per month with an associated t-statistic of 16.83 and
a three-factor intraday alpha of -3.02% per month (t-statistic of -9.74).
    This tug of war can be identi…ed using either component of close-to-close returns. Stocks
with relatively-high intraday returns have, on average, relatively-high intraday returns cou-
pled with relatively-low overnight returns in the subsequent month. A portfolio that buys
the value-weight intraday winner decile and sells the value-weight intraday loser decile has
a three-factor intraday alpha of 2.41% per month (t-statistic of 7.70) and a three-factor
overnight alpha of -1.77% per month (t-statistic of -7.89).
    Though these monthly patterns are striking, more surprising is the fact that they persist
even when we lag our intraday/overnight return signals by as much as 60 months. In-
deed, the corresponding t-statistics for the resulting joint tests are well over 20. Of course,
transaction costs will make the actual pro…tability of a trading strategy exploiting these
overnight/intraday patterns much less attractive. But the magnitude of the t-statistics com-
bined with the fact that consequences of the tug of war we identify still can be measured
years later strongly con…rm that the patterns can neither be a statistical ‡uke nor a man-
ifestation of some high-frequency market microstructure e¤ect. We argue that these novel
patterns instead represent a fundamental economic phenomenon in the market and may shed
insight on the importance of clienteles in driving the variation in expected returns.
    Although we do not observe the fundamental drivers of these intraday/overnight investor
clienteles, we conjecture that a part of this persistent investor preference/demand in these
two periods can be tied to various …rm characteristics. For example, some investors may
be particularly averse to idiosyncratic risk overnight, and therefore (always) reduce their
exposure to high-idiosyncratic-volatility stocks shortly before market close; consequently,
we may observe di¤erent return patterns associated with idiosyncratic volatility during the
intraday vs. overnight periods.
    More speci…cally, we decompose the abnormal pro…ts associated with a standard list
of …rm characteristics (that are known to forecast future close-to-close returns) into their
   2
   All our results shown below are robust to di¤erent de…nitions of open and close prices, as well as excluding
small-cap stocks.



                                                      2
intraday and overnight components. By doing so, we deliver new evidence about the cross-
section of average returns through a careful examination of exactly when expected returns
accrue. We …nd that 9 of the 14 strategies we study earn their entire premia intraday
(including size which is weak in our sample, yet only marginally fails to achieve intraday
signi…cance at conventional levels - see footnote 14). The …ve exceptions to this …nding are
all strategies based on past returns (or their close cousin, earnings announcements) – four
momentum strategies (price, industry, earnings, and time-series momentum) and the short-
term reversal e¤ect. These …ve strategies all earn their premia overnight. More formally, we
can easily reject the hypothesis that returns to the strategies we study are evenly distributed
across these two periods. Furthermore, we show that our results are not attributable to
macroeconomic or …rm-speci…c news announcements.
    In addition, we consistently …nd an overnight/intraday tug of war in strategy risk pre-
mia. For all strategies that earn statistically signi…cant premia intraday (value, pro…tability,
investment, market beta, idiosyncratic volatility, equity issuance, discretionary accruals and
share turnover), there is an economically and statistically signi…cant overnight premium that
is opposite in sign; in other words, a positive risk premium is earned overnight for the side of
the trade that might naturally be deemed as riskier. Our results thus reveal that these clas-
sic asset pricing anomalies are in fact primarily intraday anomalies in the sense that their
overnight returns arguably make much more intuitive sense. Unfortunately, our tests are
unable to link this cross-sectional variation in average overnight returns to a formal model
of risk, but we hope that this is a promising avenue for future research.
    We next exploit these strategy-speci…c tug of wars to reveal the relative attractiveness of
these strategies going forward. We motivate this approach with intuition from a simple model
of limits of arbitrage, based on Gromb and Vayanos (2010), that we provide in the Internet
Appendix. As is typically the case in that class of models, since arbitrageurs are risk-averse,
demand by uninformed investors has price impact and results in abnormal trading pro…ts
going forward for those arbitrageurs. In particular, the larger the uninformed demand, the
larger the abnormal trading pro…ts for arbitrageurs.
    Our insight is simply that di¤erent times of the trading day will naturally have di¤ering
levels of participation by arbitrageurs and that these di¤erences should reveal the magnitude
of the uninformed trading demand, all else equal. For example, if uninformed demand is
rather low, prices will move only slightly in the direction of that demand at the open and
then partially revert as more arbitrage capacity enters the market. The tug of war will
then be relatively small. If uninformed trading demand is instead rather high, prices will
move strongly in the direction at the open. Prices will revert at the close as more arbitrage
capacity comes in, but as the logic in the previous paragraph points out, will settle at a


                                               3
higher price then before the arrival of uninformed demand.3 Consequently, when the relative
magnitude of the demand is particularly high, we should be able to observe a large realized
tug of war which should forecast larger than usual returns to betting against uninformed
demand going forward.
    Based on this motivation, we use the smoothed past realized overnight and intraday re-
turn components of strategies in a variable we dub T ugOf W ar (de…ned in equation (1) in
section 4.4 below) to forecast the strategies’close-to-close returns going forward. Our hy-
pothesis is that the smoothed past overnight minus intraday return spread should positively
forecast subsequent returns of strategies whose average returns accrue primarily overnight
(momentum and short-term reversal) and negatively forecast returns on strategies with av-
erage returns that accrue primarily intraday (size, book-to-market, pro…tability, investment,
beta, idiosyncratic volatility, issuance activity, accruals, and turnover).
    Our results show that T ugOf W ar forecasts subsequent close-to-close returns just as
hypothesized and is robust to controls for a host of popular well-known timing variables.
These controls include both aggregate variables such as the lagged 12-month market return
and market volatility, and strategy-speci…c variables such as the smoothed past close-to-close
return on the strategy, the strategy’s characteristic spread, and the di¤erence in short interest
between the strategy’s long leg and short leg. The results are not only statistically signi…cant
but also economically important. For a typical strategy in our sample, a one-standard-
deviation increase in T ugOf W ar forecasts a 1% higher close-to-close strategy return, or
about 18% of its monthly return volatility.
    Finally, we zoom in on one of the most widely-used signals, price momentum, to provide
more direct evidence of the clientele mechanism. Motivated by recent work from Lou and
Polk (2013), we study the way preferences of institutions to trade momentum stocks vary
through time and across stocks and whether this variation corresponds to the overnight-
intraday return decomposition of this strategy. We study institutions as a source of clienteles
as it is reasonable to suspect that this group may have particular preferences, not only in
terms of whether they buy or sell momentum stocks but also in terms of when they prefer
to trade. We therefore link institutional activity to our momentum decomposition in two
steps.
    We …rst examine when institutional investors likely initiate trades. Speci…cally, we link
changes in institutional ownership to the components of contemporaneous …rm-level stock re-
turns and …nd that institutional ownership increases more with intraday than with overnight
   3
    There are two opposing forces in these sorts of limits to arbitrage models. On the one hand is the
magnitude of the uninformed demand. On the other hand is the risk tolerance of the arbitrageurs. Generally
speaking, we are interested in how the net di¤erence between these two opposing forces varies through time.
For ease of exposition, we focus on the uninformed demand varying through time.


                                                    4
returns. To the extent that collective trading can move prices, this evidence is consistent
with the notion that institutions tend to initiate trades throughout the day and particularly
at the close while the opposing clientele (individuals) are more likely to initiate trades near
the open. Indeed, institutions may be forced to trade intraday given the larger quantities
they tend to trade and the greater liquidity present at that time. Our understanding is
that many managed execution systems purposefully avoid the open given the relatively high
volatility brought about from large customer orders and news from the overnight period.4
We con…rm these patterns using TAQ data; large trades (linked to institutions) are more
likely to occur near the close while small trades (linked to individuals) are more likely to
occur near the open.
    We next study the extent to which institutions, relative to individuals, trade momentum
stocks. We …nd that on a value-weight basis (i.e., weights proportional to total assets),
institutions as a whole trade against the momentum characteristic. Of course, this does not
preclude a subset of institutions, for example mutual funds, from following a momentum
strategy (see Grinblatt, Titman, and Wermers 1995) and particularly so for certain stocks
at certain times, a point that we exploit.
    We condition both our trading and decomposition results on two key variables. The …rst
variable is a time-series measure of the degree of investment activity in momentum strategies
introduced by Lou and Polk (2013). The second variable is a cross-sectional measure of the
aggregate active weight (in excess of the market weight) of all institutions invested in a stock,
which is likely related to institutions’rebalancing motives.
    Either in the time series, when the amount of momentum activity is particularly low, or in
the cross-section, when the typical institution holding a stock has a particularly strong need
to rebalance, we …nd that momentum returns are relatively more negative during the day
(when institutions actively put on their trades) and relatively more positive overnight. Both
sorting variables generate variation in the spread between overnight and intraday momentum
returns on the order of 2% per month.
    The organization of our paper is as follows. Section 2 motivates our work and brie‡y
summarizes existing literature. Section 3 describes the data and empirical methodology.
Section 4 presents our main results. Section 5 concludes. A broad set of auxiliary results
and robustness checks are provided in an Internet Appendix.
  4
      We thank an anonymous referee for making this point.




                                                    5
2       Motivation and Related Literature
Though we are the …rst to measure the persistence of the intraday and overnight components
of …rm-level returns, we argue that such a decomposition is a natural one as these two periods
are di¤erent along several key dimensions.
    One key di¤erence between these two periods is that much of the overnight return may
re‡ect more …rm-speci…c information. The United States stock market is open from 9:30
am to 4:00 pm but a signi…cant portion of earnings announcements occurs outside of these
times. More generally, …rms tend to submit important regulatory …lings after the market
has closed.
    Second, it is reasonable to assume that the overnight return is predominantly driven
by trading of investors less concerned with liquidity and price impact. Of course, after-
hours trading is much thinner than trading while markets are open. Moreover, the pre-open
auctions on the NYSE and NASDAQ only average anywhere from one to four percent of
median daily volume, depending on the type of stock. Finally, trading in the …rst half hour
of the day (the interval in which we measure the open price), though substantial, is still
signi…cantly less than the volume one observes intraday, particularly near or at the close.5
    Alternatively, trading at the close could re‡ect trades that are not purely information-
based. Presumably, many of these trades are made to rebalance portfolios that were pre-
viously optimal but no longer are. Indeed, some intraday trading may be a result of in-
stitutional capital ‡ows. Perhaps some institutional investors’mandates e¤ectively require
capital to be invested immediately in the strategies those investors pursue, once that capital
arrives.
    Researchers have shown since at least Fama (1965) that volatility is higher during trad-
ing hours than non-trading hours.6 Recent work by Kelly and Clark (2011) suggests that
aggregate stock returns on average are higher overnight than intraday.7 To our knowledge,
we are the …rst paper decomposing …rm-level returns as well as the returns to popular char-
acteristics into their overnight and intraday components. By providing this evidence, our
decomposition brings new and important constraints to risk-, intermediary-, or behavioral-
based explanations of these empirical regularities.
    5
     Consistent with this idea, Barclay and Hendershott (2003) …nd that though prices are more e¢ cient and
more information is revealed during the day, an after-hours trade, on average, contains more information
than a trade made when markets are open.
   6
     See also French (1980) and French and Roll (1986).
   7
     See related work by Branch and Ma (2008), Cli¤, Cooper, and Gulen (2008), Tao and Qiu (2008),
Berkman et al. (2009), and Branch and Ma (2012).




                                                    6
3     Data and Methodology
Our core CRSP-Compustat US sample spans the period 1993 to 2013, constrained by the
availability of TAQ data. We augment these data with information on institutional ownership
from Thompson Financial. In our robustness tests, we also use international data from
Thomson Reuters Tick History.
    To decompose the close-to-close return into its overnight and intraday components, we
use the volume-weighted average price (VWAP) in the …rst half hour of trading (9:30 am -
10:00 am) as reported in TAQ.8 We rely on VWAP to ensure that our open prices are robust.
To further safeguard against the possibility that our VWAP may be driven by very small
orders, we exclude observations where there are fewer than 1000 shares traded in the …rst
half hour (we have also checked that our results are not sensitive to this restriction.)
    We …rst measure the amount of trading activity associated with our VWAP price by
decomposing dollar trading volume over 30-minute intervals throughout the trading day. In
particular, each month, we sum up the number of dollars traded in each of these half-hour
windows. Note that the …rst half-hour window that starts at 9:30 am also includes the open
auction and the last half-hour window that starts at 3:30 pm also includes last-minute (i.e.,
4:00 pm) trades. We then compute the fraction of total daily volume (i.e., the sum over
these 13 windows) that is accounted for by each 30-minute interval. Figure 1 displays the
time-series average of these fractions. Consistent with previous research, trading activity
dips during the day and then rises near the close. The percent of dollar trading volume from
9:30 am - 4:00 pm that takes place in the …rst 30-minute window is 14.25%.
                                                   i
    For each …rm i, we de…ne the intraday return, rintraday;s , as the price appreciation between
                                                                                  i
market open and close of the same day s, and impute the overnight return, rovernight;s     , based
                                                                            i
on this intraday return and the standard daily close-to-close return, rclose to close;s ,

                                                   i
                                 i
                                                  Pclose;s
                                rintraday;s =       i
                                                             1;
                                                  Popen;s
                                                       i
                                 i
                                                  1 + rclose to close;s
                                rovernight;s =            i
                                                                          1.
                                                    1 + rintraday;s

In other words, we assume that dividend adjustments, share splits, and other corporate
events that could mechanically move prices take place overnight.9 Furthermore, to ensure
   8
     We have also veri…ed that our results are robust to using open prices from other sources: a) open prices
as reported by the Center for Research in Security Prices (CRSP) which also starts in 1993 (since their
data are sourced from TAQ), b) the …rst trade price from the Trade and Quote (TAQ) database, and c)
the midpoint of the quoted bid-ask spread at the open. Our …ndings are robust to using these alternative
proxies for the open price (results available upon request).
   9
     We know of no violation of this assumption in our sample. However, we have redone our analysis


                                                     7
that the returns are actually achievable, if the open price on day s for a particular stock
is missing (which happens very rarely as we exclude small-cap stocks from our sample), we
hold the overnight position from the closing of day s 1 to the next available open price. Put
di¤erently, we construct our return measures such that the overnight and intraday returns
aggregate up to exactly the close-to-close return. Though conceptually clean, this aspect of
our methodology has no appreciable impact on our relative decomposition of average returns
into their overnight and intraday components.
    We then accumulate these overnight and intraday returns across days in each month t.


                                                                Y
                                             i                         i
                                            rintraday;t =        (1 + rintraday;s )            1;
                                                                s2t
                                                                Y
                                            i                          i
                                           rovernight;t =        (1 + rovernight;s )            1;
                                                                s2t
                         i                 i
                   (1 + rintraday;t )(1 + rovernight;t ) = (1 + rti ):

Thus, all of our analysis examines the intraday and overnight components of the standard
CRSP monthly return, rti .
  We mostly focus on portfolios, where we typically report the following three components:


                                                     X
                                           rtp =          wti 1 rti ;
                                                      i
                                    p
                                                     X
                                   rintraday;t   =        wti 1 rintraday;t
                                                                 i
                                                                            ;
                                                      i
                                   p
                                                     X
                                  rovernight;t   =        wti 1 rovernight;t
                                                                 i
                                                                             :
                                                      i

                                                                                P
    Of course (1 + rtp ) 6= (1 + rintraday;t
                                  p                 p
                                             )(1 + rovernight;t ); due to            wti 1 rintraday;t
                                                                                            i           i
                                                                                                       rovernight;t (i.e.
                                                                                 i
the interaction term), so our portfolio decomposition does not sum exactly to the close-to-
close return. This discrepancy is small and can be easily backed out from our tables.
    The main objective of this study is to examine expected returns during the overnight vs.
intraday periods. In these tests, we always exclude microcap stocks— i.e., those with a price
below $5 a share and those whose market capitalization is in the bottom NYSE size quintile—
from the sample to mitigate microstructure issues. We decompose holding-period returns
on simple value-weight long-short portfolios where breakpoints are always based on NYSE
percentiles. We also decompose holding period returns generated by Fama-MacBeth (1973)
excluding months in which dividends are paid, and our results are nearly identical.


                                                      8
WLS regressions (where the WLS weights in each cross-sectional regression are proportional
to market capitalization). These regressions allow us to carefully decompose partial e¤ects.
We report hypothesis tests as to whether overnight and intraday average returns are equal
(both as a whole and on an hourly basis) in the context of our Fama-MacBeth analysis.


4     Empirical Results
4.1    Persistence in Components of Trading Strategy Returns
We believe it is reasonable that some investors prefer to trade more intensively around the
market open, while others prefer to trade intensively later in the day. If the …rm-speci…c
order ‡ow of such clienteles is persistent, then one should see persistence in overnight and
intraday returns as well as a cross-period reversal (to the extent that the demand is not
fully informative). Thus, we check for the existence of intraday and overnight clienteles
by decomposing past returns into overnight and intraday components and looking for these
continuation and reversal patterns.
    We …rst look for these patterns linking one month to the next. In Table I, at the end
of each month, all stocks are sorted into deciles based on their lagged one-month overnight
returns (Panel A) or lagged one-month intraday returns (Panel B). In each sort, we then
go long the value-weight winner decile and short the value-weight loser decile. We report
monthly portfolio returns in excess of the risk-free rate, adjusted by the CAPM, and by the
three-factor model.
    We …nd extremely strong results. A hedge portfolio based on past one-month overnight
returns earns an average overnight excess return of 3.47% per month with an associated
t-statistic of 16.57. This …nding continues to hold regardless of the risk adjustment as the
three-factor alpha is also 3.47% per month (t-statistic of 16.83). This …nding is accompanied
by a corresponding reversal in the intraday period. The one-month overnight return hedge
portfolio earns an average intraday excess return of -3.24% per month with an associated
t-statistic of -9.34 (three-factor alpha of -3.02% per month with a t-statistic of -9.74).
    This tug of war can be identi…ed using either component of close-to-close returns. If we
instead sort stocks based on past one-month intraday returns, the resulting hedge portfolio
earns an average intraday excess return of 2.19% per month with an associated t-statistic of
6.72. As before, adjusting for three-factor exposure does not substantially reduce the e¤ect;
indeed, the three-factor alpha is higher at 2.41% per month (t-statistic of 7.70). Again, we
…nd a corresponding reversal in the overnight period as this one-month intraday return hedge
portfolio earns an average overnight excess return of -1.81% per month with an associated


                                             9
t-statistic of -8.44 (three-factor alpha of -1.77% per month with a t-statistic of -7.89).
    In untabulated results, we con…rm that these results are robust to replacing the VWAP
open price with the midpoint of the quoted bid-ask spread at the open. In particular, the
portfolio based on past one-month overnight returns has an overnight three-factor alpha of
1.88% (t-statistic of 8.75) and an intraday three-factor alpha of -1.43% (t-statistic of -7.05).
Similarly, the portfolio based on past one-month intraday returns has an intraday three-factor
alpha of 1.35% (t-statistic of 4.86) and an overnight three-factor alpha of -0.85% (t-statistic
of -3.31). Given these results, we feel con…dent that bid-ask bounce is not responsible for
our …ndings.
    Heston, Korajczyk, and Sadka (2010) (henceforth HKS) document a statistically signi…-
cant positive relation between a stock’s return over a half-hour interval and the corresponding
half-hour return occurring on each of the next 40 trading days and argue that their patterns
are consistent with investors having a predictable demand for immediacy at certain times.
However, HKS do not study how their half-hour intraday momentum e¤ects aggregate or
whether they persist beyond two months and, more importantly, do not study overnight
returns at all.
    Nevertheless, to con…rm that our …ndings are more than just a simple aggregation of the
HKS half-hour e¤ect, we include in our subsequent Fama-MacBeth regressions (discussed in
the next section and presented in Table IV) the most recent one-month intraday return as a
control for the HKS …nding. We continue to …nd that both the past intraday and the past
overnight returns independently forecast next month’s intraday and overnight components.
    Though our results are distinct from HKS, we do explore how the contribution to the
intraday persistence and overnight reversal varies across the HKS half-hour intervals. Ap-
pendix Table A1 documents that returns within any half-hour interval strongly negatively
forecast next month’s overnight return as well as strongly positively forecast next month’s
intraday return. We …nd no obvious pattern in forecasting strength, however, across these
13 half-hours of the trading day.
    With such high t-statistics, it is very unlikely that the results are spurious; nevertheless, to
con…rm that these striking overnight/intraday momentum and reversal patterns are robust,
we replicate our analysis in nine large non-US equity markets, again focusing on value-weight
portfolios. Those markets are Canada, France, Germany, Italy, United Kingdom, Australia,
Hong Kong, Japan, and South Africa. Appendix Table A2 Panel A reports our …ndings.
    For this sample, there is no short-term reversal e¤ect in close-to-close returns. This lack
of a close-to-close e¤ect hides strong patterns within the overnight and intraday periods that
are further sharpened by examined sorts on return components. Speci…cally, in every country,
we …nd a strong one-month overnight continuation e¤ect. On a value-weighted basis across


                                                10
countries, a simple strategy that buys last-month’s overnight winners and sells last-month’s
overnight losers earns an overnight premium of 2.31% with an associated t-statistic of 6.90.
Similarly, in each of the nine countries, we …nd a strong one-month intraday continuation
e¤ect. Across countries, the value-weight average intraday return of buying last month’s
intraday winners and selling last month’s intraday losers is 2.80% (t-statistic of 6.23). As
in the US, we also …nd a strong cross-period reversal in every country that is statistically
signi…cant and roughly equal in absolute magnitude.
    Our interpretation of these …ndings is that certain clienteles persistently trade certain
stocks in the same direction in the …rst half hour after market open, while others trade
later during the day, which is why we see this strong persistence in overnight and intraday
returns. If so, then these patterns should persist. As a consequence, Figure 2 reports
how the t-statistics associated with the four strategies analyzed in Table I evolve in event
time. Consistent with this interpretation, for each of the four strategies, t-statistics indicate
statistical signi…cance up to …ve years later.
    The international …ndings are similarly persistent. To highlight this fact, we com-
pute exponentially weighted moving average overnight (EW M A_N IGHT ) and intraday
(EW M A_DAY ) returns (with a half-life of 60 months and skipping the most recent month
to ensure we are not simply repackaging the one-month result documented above) and use
these variables to forecast subsequent overnight and intraday returns in each of these mar-
kets. Appendix Table A2 Panel B documents that on a value-weighted basis across countries,
EW M A_N IGHT forecasts next month’s overnight return with a t-statistic of 5.10 while
EW M A_DAY forecasts next month’s intraday return with a t-statistic of 4.60. We also …nd
a strong cross-period reversal. On a value-weight basis across countries, EW M A_N IGHT
forecasts next month’s intraday return with a t-statistic of -3.38 while EW M A_DAY fore-
casts next month’s overnight return with a t-statistic of -3.74.
    Appendix Table A3 applies our EWMA approach to the half-hour returns studied in
Appendix Table A1 and generally …nds that the low-frequency component in each of the 13
half-hour intervals is independently informative about next month’s overnight and intraday
returns. The sole exceptions are that the EWMA of past 10:30 am - 11:00 am returns
does not independently forecast subsequent overnight returns and that the EWMA of past
1:00 pm - 1:30 pm returns does not independently forecast subsequent intraday returns. Of
course, since we are examining 13 half-hour intervals, we are still strongly able to reject the
null hypothesis that the 13 intraday coe¢ cients are jointly < 0 as well as the null hypothesis
that the 13 overnight coe¢ cients are jointly > 0.




                                               11
4.2     The Cross-Section of Expected Return Components
Given these remarkable patterns, we use our new approach to understand the importance of
clienteles for expected close-to-close returns on popular trading strategies. Speci…cally, we
decompose the abnormal pro…ts associated with a long list of trading strategies –size, value,
price momentum, earnings momentum, industry momentum, time-series momentum, prof-
itability, investment, idiosyncratic volatility, beta, turnover, equity issuance, discretionary
accruals, and short-term reversals –into their intraday and overnight components. In each
case, we simply report the average CAPM alphas of the overnight and intraday components
of the zero-cost strategy; please see Appendix Table A4 for the average excess returns, CAPM
alphas, and, when appropriate, three-factor alphas on both the long and the short sides of
these strategies. All of our conclusions are robust to these di¤erent risk adjustments.
    The equity premium
    As a benchmark, we …rst decompose the equity premium into its overnight and intraday
components. Table II reports that the market portfolio (CRSP ) as measured by the value-
weight CRSP universe has an average monthly intraday excess return of 0.38% and an average
overnight return of 0.55%. This breakdown lines up pretty well with one simply based on the
percentage of time corresponding to each of these two periods. Speci…cally, the US market
is open for approximately 27% of the 24-hour day and the premium earned then is roughly
40% of the total. As we shall soon see, the decomposition results for the popular trading
strategies we study are all very far from this natural benchmark.
    Our …ndings are, on the surface, inconsistent with previous work that has argued that
the equity premium is primarily an overnight phenomenon. However, much of that research
bases their conclusions on narrow market proxies like an ETF tracking the Dow 30. In
Appendix Figure A1, we compare an annualized version of our decomposition of the CRSP
value-weight index against a similar decomposition of a value-weight portfolio of the top 1%
stocks of the NYSE sample (similar to the Dow 30). The …gure shows that for the largest
stocks, essentially all of their risk premium is earned overnight. This result foreshadows our
next …nding that the well-known small-stock e¤ect is entirely an intraday phenomenon.
    Size, value, and momentum
    We examine three well-known strategies that capture the average returns associated with
size and value (Fama and French 1992) and momentum (Jegadeesh and Titman 1993).10 We
  10
    Fama and French (1992) argue that size and the book-to-market-equity ratio describe the cross section
of average returns, subsuming many other related characteristics. Fama and French (1993) propose a three-
factor model that includes not only a market factor but also a size and value factor. Fama and French (1996)
argue that these factors price a variety of trading strategies except for the momentum e¤ect of Jegadeesh
and Titman (1993). See Campbell, Giglio, Polk, and Turley (forthcoming) for a comprehensive analysis of
how these patterns and the subsequent anomalies we study can or cannot be explained by intertemporal


                                                    12
…rst examine a strategy (M E) that goes long the small-stock decile and short the large-stock
decile. Table II reports the overnight and intraday components of M E’s CAPM-adjusted
returns. Essentially all of the size premium occurs intraday. Speci…cally, the intraday CAPM
alpha is 0.43% (t-statistic of 1.85) while the overnight CAPM alpha is only 0.11% (t-statistic
of 0.75).
     We next decompose the returns on a strategy (BM ) that goes long the high book-to-
market decile and short the low book-to-market decile. We measure book-to-market-equity
ratios following Fama and French (1992). Again, we …nd that essentially all of the value
premium occurs intraday. Speci…cally, the intraday CAPM alpha is 0.48% (t-statistic of
2.21) while the overnight CAPM alpha is actually slightly negative, though not statistically
signi…cant (-0.10% per month, t-statistic of -0.67).
     We then decompose the returns on a standard implementation of the classic momentum
strategy, M OM , of Jegadeesh and Titman (1993) where we measure momentum over an
eleven-month ranking period and then skip a month before forming portfolios. In sharp
contrast to the …ndings for size and value, essentially all of M OM ’s returns are generated
overnight. Speci…cally, the overnight CAPM alpha is 0.98% (t-statistic of 3.84) while the
intraday CAPM alpha is only -0.02% (t-statistic of -0.06).11
     Although all momentum pro…ts occur from the closing price to the opening price, the
overnight return on M OM is much less volatile (4.02% standard deviation) than the close-to-
close return (7.85% standard deviation). Thus, the Sharpe Ratio of the overnight return on
M OM is 0.77, more than twice as high as the Sharpe Ratio of the close-to-close return (0.31).
Interestingly, on average, more of the negative skewness observed in momentum strategies
(Daniel and Moskowitz 2013) and present in M OM arrives intraday rather than overnight.12
Given that momentum di¤ers dramatically from size and value as well as the other strategies
we study below, the Internet Appendix provides various additional robustness tests and
auxiliary analyses in Tables A10, A11 and A12.
     Earning Momentum, Industry Momentum, and Time-series Momentum
     We next examine three other momentum strategies to document whether our …nding that
momentum pro…ts accrue overnight continues to hold. Table II decomposes the abnormal
returns on an earnings momentum strategy (SU E). Our earnings momentum characteristic
is simply the di¤erence between reported earnings and the consensus forecast; this di¤erence
is scaled by the …rm’s stock price. As with price momentum, we …nd that 100% of the
asset pricing.
  11
     We follow the standard approach in the literature by examining monthly holding periods on momentum
strategies. However, our results are robust to di¤erent holding periods (see Appendix Figures A2 and A3
and the related discussion).
  12
     Overnight MOM returns have a skewness of -1.08 while the skewness of intraday MOM returns is -1.53.



                                                  13
returns to SU E occur overnight. In particular, the CAPM alpha of a long-short earnings
momentum portfolio is 0.56% with a t-statistic of 3.20. The corresponding intraday CAPM
alpha is indistinguishable from zero.
    We then decompose the abnormal returns on an industry momentum strategy (IN DM OM ).
We follow Moskowitz and Grinblatt (1999) and measure industry momentum over a twelve-
month ranking period for 20 industries based on SIC codes. Again, we …nd that 100% of the
IN DM OM e¤ect occurs overnight. In particular, the overnight CAPM alpha of a long-short
industry momentum portfolio is 1.07% with a t-statistic of 6.47. The corresponding intraday
CAPM alpha is quite negative at -0.63% (t-statistic of -2.03).
    Finally, in Table III, we examine the intraday and overnight returns of Moskowitz, Ooi
and Pedersen’s (2012) time-series momentum strategy applied to a universe of 22 of the
most liquid futures on international equity indexes. Note that Moskowitz, Ooi and Pedersen
study 59 future contracts spanning all asset classes, but since equity markets are the focus
of our paper, we restrict our attention only to futures on equity indexes, which is also
appropriate because “intraday” and “overnight” periods are much more well-de…ned for
equity markets than they are for, say, USD/Yen currency futures. We list the markets we
study in Panel B of the table. As with cross-sectional momentum, time-series momentum
occurs entirely overnight. Table III Panel A documents that for our sample, the monthly
overnight CAPM alpha associated with time-series momentum is 1.40% with a t-statistic of
3.24. The corresponding intraday alpha is negative, economically negligible, and statistically
indistinguishable from zero. These conclusions are robust to controlling for the Fama-French-
Carhart four-factor model. Interestingly, all of this strategy’s negative return skewness comes
from its intraday component.
    In summary, for the four di¤erent momentum strategies studied in this paper, all of
the abnormal pro…ts occur overnight. Indeed, in the case of industry momentum, more
than 100% of the close-to-close premium accrues overnight, as there is a partially-o¤setting
negative intraday premium.
    Pro…tability and Investment
    Researchers have documented that several other characteristics generate cross-sectional
variation in average returns. Chief among these characteristics are pro…tability –introduced
by Haugen and Baker (1996), con…rmed in Vuolteenaho (2002), and re…ned in Novy-Marx
(2013) –and investment –introduced by Fair…eld, Whisenant, and Yohn (2003) and carefully
analyzed in Titman, Wei, and Xie (2004) and Polk and Sapienza (2009). Indeed, Fama and
French (2015) grant that two factors based on pro…tability and investment help describe the
cross section of average returns, even in the presence of their value factor, HM L.
    We examine a pro…tability or return on equity strategy (ROE) that goes long the high


                                             14
pro…tability decile and short the low pro…tability decile. Table II reports the overnight and
intraday components of ROE’s CAPM alpha. More than 100% of the pro…tability premium
occurs intraday as ROE has a very strong negative overnight CAPM alpha. Speci…cally,
the intraday CAPM alpha is 1.42% (t-statistic of 5.58) while the overnight CAPM alpha is
-0.95% (t-statistic of -6.25).
    We then examine a strategy (IN V ) that goes long the low investment decile and short
the high investment decile. Table II reports the overnight and intraday components of
IN V ’s CAPM alpha. We …nd that more than 100% of the low investment premium occurs
intraday as there is a statistically signi…cant negative CAPM alpha associated with IN V
overnight. Speci…cally, the intraday CAPM alpha is 0.97% (t-statistic of 4.39) while the
overnight three-factor alpha is -0.28% (t-statistic of 2.10).
    Beta and Idiosyncratic Volatility
    The next two strategies we study relate to traditional measures of risk. The fundamental
measure of risk in the asset-pricing model of Sharpe (1964), Lintner (1965), and Black (1972)
is market beta. However, empirical evidence indicates that the security market line is too
‡at on average (Black 1972 and Frazzini and Pedersen 2014).
    We examine a strategy (BET A) that goes long the low-beta decile and short the high-
beta decile. We measure beta using daily returns over the last year in a market model
regression. We include three lags of the market in the regression and sum their coe¢ cients
to take nonsynchronous trading issues into account (Dimson, 1979). Table II reports the
overnight and intraday components of BET A’s CAPM alpha. More than 100% of the
low-beta premium occurs intraday as there is a negative premium on our BET A strategy
overnight. Speci…cally, the intraday CAPM alpha is 0.70% (t-statistic of 2.40) while the
overnight CAPM alpha is -0.49% (t-statistic of 2.17).
    We next analyze a strategy (IV OL) that goes long the low idiosyncratic volatility decile
and short the high idiosyncratic volatility decile. Ang, Hodrick, Xing, and Zhang (2006)
argue that high idiosyncratic stocks have abnormally low returns. We measure idiosyncratic
volatility as the volatility of the residual from a daily Fama-French-Carhart four-factor re-
gression estimated over the prior year. Table II documents that more than 100% of the
IV OL premium occurs intraday. As a consequence, IV OL has a negative risk premium
overnight. Speci…cally, the intraday CAPM alpha for IV OL is 2.48% per month with an
associated t-statistic of 6.21. The corresponding overnight CAPM alpha is -1.46% per month
with a t-statistic of -5.23.
    Equity Issuance and Discretionary Accruals
    Our next group of strategies are related to …rm …nancing and accounting decisions. Daniel
and Titman (2006) show that issuance activity negatively predicts cross-sectional variation in


                                             15
average returns. Sloan (1996) documents a strong negative correlation between discretionary
accruals and subsequent stock returns. We …rst examine a strategy (ISSU E) that goes long
the low-equity-issuance decile and short the high-equity-issuance decile. Table II reports
the overnight and intraday components of ISSU E’s CAPM alpha. More than 100% of
the issuance premium occurs intraday; ISSU E has a very strong negative overnight CAP M
alpha. Speci…cally, the intraday CAPM alpha is 1.13% (t-statistic of 6.13) while the overnight
CAPM alpha is -0.52% (t-statistic of 3.27).
    We then examine a strategy (ACCRU ALS) that goes long the low discretionary accruals
decile and short the high discretionary accruals decile. Table II reports the overnight and
intraday components of ACCRU ALS’s CAPM alpha. Again, more than 100% of the accruals
premium occurs intraday as there is a statistically signi…cant negative overnight CAP M
alpha associated with the ACCRU ALS strategy. Speci…cally, the intraday CAPM alpha is
1.10% (t-statistic of 4.73) while the overnight CAPM alpha is -0.47% (t-statistic of 3.25).
    Turnover and One-month Return
    The …nal two strategies we study relate to liquidity and price impact. Datar, Naik and
Radcli¤e (1998) show that turnover (T U RN OV ER) is negatively related to the cross-section
of average returns, and this …nding is con…rmed in Lee and Swaminathan (2000). Jegadeesh
(1990) shows that buying (selling) short-term losers (winners) is pro…table.
    We …rst examine a strategy (T U RN OV ER) that goes long the low turnover decile and
short the high turnover decile. We measure turnover following Lee and Swaminathan (2000)
as the average daily volume over the last year. Table II reports the overnight and intra-
day components of T U RN OV ER’s CAPM alpha. Again, more than 100% of the negative
turnover premium occurs intraday as there is a statistically signi…cant negative expected
return associated with T U RN OV ER overnight. Speci…cally, the intraday CAPM alpha is
0.57% (t-statistic of 2.58) while the overnight CAPM alpha is -0.29% (t-statistic of -1.98).
    We …nally analyze a strategy (ST R) that goes long the low past one-month return decile
and short the high past one-month return turnover decile. Table II reports the overnight
and intraday components of ST R’s CAPM alpha. Note that we …nd no short-term reversal
close-to-close e¤ect, which is perhaps not surprising given that we exclude microcaps from
our sample, form value-weight portfolios, and study a relatively recent time period. However,
what is surprising is that our decomposition reveals a strong overnight reversal and a slightly
stronger negative expected return associated with ST R intraday. Speci…cally, the intraday
CAPM alpha is -1.05% (t-statistic of -3.25) while the overnight three-factor alpha is 0.93%
(t-statistic of 4.28).
    Fama-MacBeth Regressions
    Though portfolio sorts are useful as a robust, non-parametric approach to document


                                              16
the link between a characteristic and the cross-section of average returns, this approach
has di¢ culty controlling for more than just a very small number of other characteristics
and thus makes measuring partial e¤ects problematic. As a consequence, we turn to Fama
and MacBeth (1973) regressions to describe the cross-section of overnight versus intraday
expected returns. Observations are weighted by lagged market capitalization in each cross
sectional regression to be consistent with our portfolio analysis. Columns (1) through (3)
of Table IV report the following three regressions: a standard regression forecasting the
cross-section of rclose to close , a regression forecasting the cross-section of rovernight , and a
regression forecasting the cross-section of rintraday . In each regression, we include all of the
characteristics studied above except for earnings momentum, as it reduces the number of
observations in each cross-section considerably. Also, for ease of comparison to previous
results, we use the raw characteristic, distinguishing the variable from the strategies in the
above analysis by the use of lowercase. Thus, for example, we expect a negative coe¢ cient
on size in the regressions in Table IV, just as we expected a positive CAPM alpha on the
SIZE strategy in Table II that was constructed to buy small stocks and sell large stocks.
    To con…rm that our …ndings are distinct from those in section 4.1, we include in the
regressions in Table IV the most recent one-month intraday return (ret_day), the most
recent one-month overnight return (ret_night), and both ewma_night and ewma_day
de…ned in the previous subsection.13
    Regression (1) shows that, for our sample, only ret_day, inv, and issue are statistically
signi…cant (on a value-weighted basis).14 Regression (3) reveals that many of these charac-
teristics are much stronger predictors of the cross-section of intraday returns. In fact, size,
ivol, turnover, inv, and issue are all statistically signi…cant and beta and roe are marginally
signi…cant. Consistent with the results from our portfolio sorts, the sign on ret_day ‡ips to
be positive and statistically signi…cant. There are negative intraday mom and bm e¤ects,
though the estimate on the latter is not signi…cant at the …ve percent level.
    In the cross-section of overnight returns described by regression (2), mom is very strong.
Consistent with the results in previous tables, there is a strong positive premium associated
  13
     Appendix Table A5 reestimates these regressions dropping ret_day, ret_night, ewma_night, and
ewma_day, and including the past one-month return, ret1
  14
     Several papers are consistent with our …nding that the partial e¤ects associated with size and bm are
relatively weak in our post-1992 sample that focuses on relatively large stocks. In terms of size, Schwert
(2003) argues that the small-…rm e¤ect disappeared shortly after the publication of Banz (1981). Moreover,
Horowitz, Loughran, and Savin (2000) argue that stocks with less than $5 million in market cap are entirely
responsible for the small …rm e¤ect. Our data …lters remove those stocks from our sample so we would
expect a weaker size e¤ect. In terms of value, Fama and French (2015) state in the abstract of their paper
proposing a …ve-factor asset pricing model that “With the addition of pro…tability and investment factors,
the value factor of the FF three factor model becomes redundant for describing average returns in the sample
we examine.”



                                                    17
with ivol and turnover and a strong negative premium associated with roe. The positive
premium for beta is large but only marginally statistically signi…cant. Interestingly, there is
a positive premium for size and bm. Overall, these regressions are broadly consistent with
our main …ndings.
    It is worth emphasizing that these regressions control for the persistence …nding of Sec-
tion 4.1, in the sense that characteristics predict return components even though the re-
gressions include lagged …rm-level component returns (ret_day, ret_night, ewma_night,
ewma_day). Moreover, ret_night, ret_day, ewma_night, and ewma_day all continue to
strongly predict overnight and intraday returns in the same way as the results in Figure 2.
In particular, we …nd that ewma_night predicts subsequent overnight and intraday returns
with a coe¢ cient of 16.8 (t-statistic of 6.00) and -21.7 (t-statistic of -5.22) respectively while
ewma_day forecasts subsequent intraday and overnight returns with a coe¢ cient of 10.4
(t–statistic of 3.39) and -15.6 (t-statistic of -3.42) respectively. We have also estimated this
regression skipping either two or three months and the results are largely unchanged.15
    Testing for statistical di¤erences between overnight and intraday overnight premiums for
Fama-French-Carhart anomalies
    Regressions (4) and (5) present the main statistical tests of our decomposition of the
cross-section of average returns. Regression (4) tests the hypothesis that the overnight and
intraday partial premiums for a particular anomaly are equal. We easily reject a joint test
of that null. Regression (5) tests the hypothesis that the overnight and intraday partial
premiums for each anomaly are proportional to the corresponding percentage of the 24-hour
day. We easily reject a test that this is jointly true across the anomalies in question.


4.3      Return Component Patterns Not Explained by News An-
         nouncements
Macroeconomic news
   Scheduled macroeconomic announcements are made both when markets are open and
when they are closed, in roughly equal proportions. Of course, particular announcements
may be particularly relevant in terms of cross-sectional di¤erences in risk. We take a …rst
step in analyzing whether exposure to macroeconomic news can explain the cross-section of
overnight versus intraday returns by examining the cross-sectional response to a macroeco-
nomic announcement that has been shown to be relevant for the market as a whole, namely
  15
     If we skip two months, the corresponding coe¢ cients are 15.8 (t-statistic of 5.77), -19.0 (t-statistic of
-5.33), 10.4 (t-statistic of 3.90), and -11.8 (t-statistic of -3.30). If we skip three months, the corresponding
coe¢ cients are 14.1 (t-statistic of 5.36), -17.4 (t-statistic of -5.04), 9.5 (t-statistic of 3.66), and -10.6 (t-statistic
of -3.24).


                                                           18
the announcement from the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC). Lucca
and Moench (2015) show the market response to macro announcements documented in Sa-
vor and Wilson (2014) exclusively comes from the FOMC announcement and occurs during
the 2pm-to-2pm period prior to the scheduled FOMC announcements. Since the market re-
sponse is quite strong and covers both an intraday and overnight period, this announcement
has the potential to uncover di¤erences in risk across these periods for momentum, size, and
value strategies.
    Appendix Table A6 Panel A reports the overnight and intraday components for the day
of the announcement as well as the days before and after the announcement for the charac-
teristics studied above. We …nd no statistically signi…cant di¤erences in average returns for
any of the strategies. Only BET A, IV OL, and ISSU E have statistically signi…cant aver-
age returns over these days, and there is no obvious pattern within the intraday/overnight
periods for these characteristics.
    Firm-speci…c news
    One clear di¤erence between the intraday and overnight periods is that a signi…cant
portion of …rm-speci…c news tends to be released after markets close. Appendix Table
A6 Panels B and C examine the role of news announcements. Consistent with Engelberg,
McLean, and Ponti¤ (2017), we …nd that there is a statistically signi…cant abnormal return
on announcement days for most of the strategies we study. However there is no clear pattern
in terms of the overnight and intraday components of these average abnormal returns. We
…nd that BM , M OM , and ST R have all of their earnings announcement premia realized
intraday. In contrast, we …nd that ROE, IV OL, and ACCRU ALS have their earnings
announcement premia realized overnight. Finally, T U RN OV ER and ISSU E essentially
have their earnings announcement premia realized evenly across the overnight and intraday
periods. More broadly, Appendix Table A6 Panel C documents that there is no statistical
di¤erence between news and non-news months.


4.4    Forecasting Close-to-close Strategy Returns with the Tug of
       War
As argued in the introduction, one way of thinking about our documented intraday/overnight
spread in various return anomalies is that there are di¤erent investor clienteles: while some
investors bet against the anomaly in question, others trade in the opposite direction, thus
helping create and prolong the anomalous pattern. To the extent that these di¤erent clien-
teles have varying degrees of trading intensities during the day vs. at night, our novel
overnight/intraday return decomposition provides new insights into their collective behavior


                                             19
and subsequent strategy performance.
    Consider modeling uninformed traders and arbitrageurs trading at the open and close.
Though some arbitrageurs participate at both times of the day, there is more capacity at
the close. To …x ideas, think of a positive demand shock from these uninformed traders.
That shock results in overpriced assets, as arbitrageurs are risk averse. Given the relatively
light participation by arbitrageurs at the open, prices …rst react strongly to the uninformed
demand and then revert to a lower, though still overpriced level at the close. The price
does not fully return to the true value at the close as arbitrageurs must be compensated for
bearing the risk.
    Of course, larger demand shocks will have a larger price impact as arbitrageurs will
require additional compensation for the additional liquidity they provide. Thus, both the
initial back and forth from the open to the close as well as the subsequent return from the
close will be higher, all else equal. We develop this model (based on the work of Gromb and
Vayanos, 2010) and formally prove this claim in the Internet Appendix.
    To take this prediction to the data, we de…ne the variable, T ugOf W ars , for strategy s
as follows:


                   s;EW M A           s                      s;EW M A
                  rovernight;t =     rovernight;t + (1     )rovernight;t 1;                              (1)
                    s;EW M A          s                     s;EW M A
                   rintraday;t =     rintraday;t + (1     )rintraday;t 1;
                               s;EW M A            s;EW M A
              T ugOf W arts = rovernight;t        rintraday;t for s 2 overnight strategies,
                               s;EW M A            s;EW M A
              T ugOf W arts = rintraday;t         rovernight;t for s 2 intraday strategies,

                                                         s                s
where the overnight and intraday components of returns, rovernight;t and rintraday;t , are de…ned
in section 3. We choose a smoothing parameter that is consistent with a half-life of 60
months (our results are robust to other half-lives).16
    By de…ning T ugOf W ar in this way, the coe¢ cient in the regression forecasting the
close-to-close returns on strategy s:

                                      s
                                     rt+1 = T ugOf W arts + "st+1 ;

is predicted to be positive regardless of whether the strategy in question is an overnight or
intraday strategy.
    We also include in the regression a corresponding exponentially weighted moving average
  16                            s;EW M A        s;EW M A
   We set the initial value of rintraday;t and rovernight;t to the …rst observation of the corresponding com-
ponent of a strategy’s returns.



                                                     20
(EWMA) of the lagged monthly close-to-close strategy returns and monthly daily strategy
return volatility. Finally, we also include in the regressions a host of other controls in-
cluding the lagged 12-month market return and market volatility, the characteristic spread
between the strategy’s long lag and short lag, and the di¤erence in short interest between
the strategy’s long leg and short leg.17
    As shown in Table V, our measure of a strategy’s tug of war forecasts subsequent close-to-
close strategy returns just as predicted. All but one of the anomalies have the predicted sign
for the forecasting coe¢ cient, and six of the eleven anomalies are statistically signi…cant.
We can easily reject the null hypothesis that the forecasting coe¢ cients are jointly zero
(p < 0.01). In terms of economic importance, for the average strategy in our sample, a
one-standard-deviation increase in its T ugOf W ars forecasts a 1.01% higher close-to-close
strategy return, or about 18% of its monthly return volatility.


4.5     Price Momentum and the Institutional Tug of War
Building on our general measure of investor heterogeneity, we next turn to a speci…c case
of clientele trading to shed more light on the price momentum e¤ect. To this end, we focus
on two speci…c clienteles, individuals vs. institutions, who have di¤erent preferences for
momentum characteristics and tend to initiate trades at di¤erent points in a day.

4.5.1    Evidence from Recent US data

When do institutions trade?
    We …rst study when institutional investors tend to trade. Figure 3 provides suggestive
evidence that small trades occur more near the market open while large trades occur more
near the market close. Speci…cally, this …gure reports dollar trading volume of large vs. small
orders over 30-minute intervals as a fraction of the daily volume for the period 1993-2000.
Following previous research, we de…ne small orders as those below $5,000 and large orders as
those above $50,000. We end our analysis in 2001 as this link between trade size and investor
type no longer holds because large institutions began splitting their orders post-2000. Since
institutions tended to submit large orders while individuals tended to submit small orders,
these results are consistent with the view that institutions tended to trade at market close
and individuals at market open.18
  17
     Cohen, Polk, and Vuolteenaho (2003) use the value spread to forecast time-series variation in expected
returns on value-minus-growth strategies. Lou and Polk (2014) show that the formation spread in the mo-
mentum characteristic forecasts time-series variation in expected returns on momentum strategies. Hanson
and Sunderam (2013) document how time-series and cross-sectional variation in short interest forecasts
strategy returns.
  18
     Though we follow the literature in assuming that institutions did not consistently break up their trades


                                                     21
    For broader evidence over our full sample, we link changes in institutional ownership to
the components of contemporaneous …rm-level stock returns. In Table VI Panel A, we regress
quarterly changes in institutional ownership on the overnight and intraday components of
contemporaneous returns.19 We examine this relation across institutional ownership quintiles
as we expect the result to be stronger for the subset of stocks where institutions are more
important. We …nd that for all but the lowest institutional ownership quintile, institutional
ownership increases more with intraday rather than overnight returns.
    To the extent that investors’ collective trading can move prices, this evidence suggests
that institutions are more likely to trade signi…cantly after the open while individuals are
more likely to initiate trades near the open. Of course, one could argue it is hard to know
how to interpret these correlations because institutional trading can both drive stock re-
turns and react to stock returns within the quarter. Three reasons suggest that alternative
interpretation of our results is unlikely.
    First, our result is consistent with the usual understanding as to how these two classes
of investors approach markets. Professional investors tend to trade during the day, and
particularly near the close, taking advantage of the relatively higher liquidity at that time.
Conversely, individuals may be more likely to evaluate their portfolios in the evening after
work and thus may tend to make trades that execute when markets open. Our discussions
with asset managers indicates that the typical manager does not trade at the open.
    Second, a reverse causality interpretation of our …ndings in Table VI seems theoretically
implausible. It would be odd that institutions chase only intraday returns but not overnight
returns since the close-to-close returns are what is important in theories predicting such
behavior (e.g. window dressing as in Lakonishok, Shleifer, Thaler, and Vishny 1991).
    Third, we con…rm our key result in alternative data, speci…cally, using high-frequency
daily institutional ‡ows from Campbell, Ramadorai, and Schwartz (2009). We …nd that our
results continue to hold and, in fact, are statistically speaking much stronger. Table VI
Panel B shows that for all but the lowest institutional ownership quintile, daily institutional
ownership increases much more with intraday rather than overnight returns.
    What types of stocks do institutions trade?
    We then examine whether institutions trade with or against the momentum characteristic,
both on average and conditional on key indicators. In particular, we forecast quarterly
changes in institutional ownership using a …rm’s momentum characteristic.
before 2001, it might be the case that institutions choose to trade smaller amounts at or near the opening,
e.g. because of higher volatility or less liquidity at those times. Figure 3 should therefore be interpreted as
somewhat speculative but suggestive evidence consistent with the more detailed forthcoming evidence below.
  19
     Each panel of Table VI only shows the top and bottom quintiles. Please see Appendix Table A7 for the
results for all quintiles.



                                                      22
    In Table VII Panel A, we estimate both OLS and WLS (with weights tied to a …rm’s
lagged market capitalization) cross-sectional regressions and report the resulting Fama-
MacBeth estimates. We …rst focus on the unconditional results, reported in columns (1)
and (3). When we weight …rms equally, we …nd no relation between a stock’s momentum
characteristic and its subsequent change in institutional ownership. Since our analysis of
returns mainly relies on value-weight portfolios, we also examine the results when we weight
observations by market capitalization. In this case, we …nd that institutions collectively trade
against the momentum characteristic. The estimate is -0.260 with an associated standard
error of 0.119. Of course, since a decrease in institutional ownership is an increase in individ-
ual ownership, these …ndings suggest that, on average, individuals, relative to institutions,
are the ones trading momentum.
    These …ndings are consistent with Gompers and Metrick (2001) who …nd a strong negative
cross-sectional relation between momentum and institutional ownership. Of course, a subset
of institutions may follow a momentum strategy and be particularly important either at
certain times or for certain stocks. Below, we exploit two variables, comomentum and
active weight that arguably proxy for variation in momentum trading by institutions. We
also discuss the relationship between price momentum and size, since institutions are likely
more active in larger stocks.
    Comomentum forecasts time-variation in price momentum component returns
    Lou and Polk (2013) propose a novel approach to measuring the amount of momentum
trading based on time-variation in the degree of high-frequency abnormal return comovement
among momentum stocks, dubbed comomentum. This idea builds on Barberis and Shleifer
(2003), who argue that institutional ownership can cause returns to comove above and beyond
what is implied by their fundamentals.20 Lou and Polk con…rm that their measure of the
momentum crowd is a success based on three empirical …ndings. First, comomentum is
signi…cantly correlated with existing variables plausibly linked to the size of arbitrage capital.
Second, comomentum forecasts relatively low holding-period returns, relatively high holding-
period return volatility, and relatively more negative holding-period return skewness for the
momentum strategy. Finally, when comomentum is relatively high, the long-run buy-and-
hold returns to a momentum strategy are negative, consistent with times of relatively high
amounts of momentum investing pushing prices further away from fundamentals.
    Columns (2) and (4) in Table VII Panel A report the results from forecasting the
time-series of cross-sectional regression coe¢ cients using comomentum. For robustness,
  20
    Recent work by Anton and Polk (2014) uses a natural experiment to con…rm that institutional ownership
can cause this sort of comovement. Lou (2012) shows that mutual fund ‡ow-induced trading could also lead
to excess stock return comovement.



                                                   23
we simply measure comomentum using tercile dummies. Consistent with the interpretation
that comomentum measures time-variation in the size of the momentum crowd, we …nd
that institutions’ tendency to trade against the momentum characteristic is decreasing in
comomentum. The e¤ect is statistically signi…cant for both the OLS and WLS estimates.
    Table VII Panels B and C explore the implications of this result for our decomposition of
momentum pro…ts. In particular, we partition the data into three subsamples based on the
relative value of comomentum. Following Lou and Polk (2013), we track the buy-and-hold
performance of M OM for two years following portfolio formation. Our prediction is that
periods when comomentum is low are times when institutions as a whole trade especially
strongly against momentum. As a consequence, momentum pro…ts should be stronger and
the momentum tug of war (the di¤erence between overnight and intraday average returns)
should be larger.
    That pattern is exactly what we …nd. When comomentum is low, we …nd that the
overnight excess returns to momentum strategies are particularly strong in both Year 1 and
Year 2 after classi…cation. However, when comomentum is high, overnight excess returns
turn negative. The di¤erence in the average monthly overnight return to momentum across
high and low comomentum states of the world is -1.56% in Year 1 and -2.26% in Year 2.
Both estimates are jointly statistically signi…cant (t-statistics of -2.22 and -4.05 respectively).
    A corresponding comomentum e¤ect can be seen in the average intraday returns to mo-
mentum. When comomentum is low, we …nd that the intraday excess returns to momentum
strategies are particularly negative in both Year 1 and Year 2. However, when comomentum
is high, these excess returns turn positive. The di¤erence in the average monthly intraday
return to momentum across high and low comomentum states of the world is 1.11% in Year
1 and 0.86% in Year 2. Both estimates are jointly statistically signi…cant (t-statistics of 1.79
and 2.04 respectively).
    Active weight forecasts the cross-section of price momentum component returns
    The second key indicator we use is the aggregate active weight in a stock. We measure
active weight as the di¤erence between the aggregate weight of all institutions in a stock and
the weight of the stock in the value-weight market portfolio. We conjecture that a relatively
large active weight will indicate a preference by those institutional investors to rebalance
toward market weights, due to risk management concerns such as keeping within tracking
error targets. To illustrate, imagine that institutions collectively overweight stock S. If the
stock goes up (down) in value relative to the market, institutions will have an even larger
(smaller) weight in S, and will thus trade in a contrary manner to keep their tracking error
small. The reverse is true for an initial underweight in stock S.
    Columns (2) and (4) in Table VIII Panel A report the results from cross-sectional re-


                                                24
gressions forecasting quarterly changes in institutional ownership using a …rm’s momentum
characteristic, active weight, and the interaction between these two variables. For robust-
ness, we simply measure active weight using quintile dummies.
    Consistent with our conjecture that institutions with high active weight in a stock are
reluctant to let their positions ride, we …nd that institutions’tendency to trade against the
momentum characteristic is increasing in active weight. The e¤ect is statistically signi…cant
for both the OLS and WLS estimates.
    Table VIII Panels B and C explore the implications of this result for our decomposition
of momentum pro…ts. In particular, we independently sort stocks on momentum and active
weight into quintiles based on NYSE breakpoints and form 25 value-weight portfolios. Our
prediction is that stocks with low active weight are stocks where institutions as a whole par-
ticularly trade against momentum. As a conseuqence, momentum pro…ts should be stronger
and the momentum tug of war should be larger.
    Again, that pattern is exactly what we …nd. When active weight is low, we …nd that the
overnight excess returns to momentum strategies are relatively weak the next month. When
active weight is high, however, overnight returns become strongly positive. The di¤erence
in the average monthly overnight return to momentum across high and low active weight
stocks is 1.15% with an associated t-statistic of 5.39.
    A corresponding e¤ect can, again, be seen in the average intraday returns to momentum.
When active weight is low, the average intraday excess returns to momentum strategies are
close to zero. However, when active weight is high, these average excess returns become
quite negative. The di¤erence in the average monthly intraday return to momentum across
high and low active weight stocks is -0.76% with an associated t-statistic of -2.70.
    Summary
    Whether or not institutions are momentum traders is an important research question in
…nance. Despite the importance of this question, there is no clear consensus; the answer
appears to depend on both the type of institution being studied and the sample in question.
For our data, we …nd that on average, institutions tend to trade against momentum.21 More-
over, there is interesting time-series and cross-sectional variation in institutional momentum
trading that goes hand-in-hand with variation in the decomposition of momentum pro…ts
into overnight and intraday components.
    Namely, in the time series, when the amount of momentum trading activity is particularly
low, or in the cross-section, when the typical institution holding a stock has a particularly
  21
    Our results are consistent with the …ndings of Badrinath and Wahal (2002), who show that institutions
tend to be momentum traders when they open new positions but are contrarian when they adjust existing
ones.



                                                   25
strong need to rebalance, we …nd that institutions trade more strongly against momentum
and that momentum returns are even larger overnight and more strongly reverse during the
day. Both cases generate variation in the spread between overnight and intraday returns on
the order of two percent per month.

4.5.2   Price Momentum Decomposition Varies with Size: Non-US and pre-1962
        evidence

In Appendix Table A10, Panels C and D we report that the spread between overnight and
intraday price momentum returns is much stronger for large stocks relative to small stocks.
While we believe the comomentum and active weight measures are better proxies for variation
in institutional trading than market capitalization, it is worth noting that results using this
measure also agree with our previous …ndings. This agreement is particularly important
because the price momentum - capitalization relationship can be explored in data samples
for which our sharper proxies are unavailable, and in this subsection we con…rm that the
size-momentum component relationship is stable across all samples we consider.


Evidence from non-US Markets To provide further evidence of our …nding that momen-
tum pro…ts, particularly for stocks held by institutional owners, accrue primarily overnight,
we decompose pro…ts to momentum strategies in the nine non-US equity markets studied
above. A signi…cant challenge in decomposing momentum pro…ts in non-US markets is the
availability of reliable data for open prices. We obtain that data from Thomson Reuters
Tick History database, which provides comprehensive microsecond tick data for markets
around the world since 1996.22 To construct an open price, we followed our US method and
computed a VWAP price for each stock.
    Appendix Table A8 Panel A reports our …ndings. The left-side of the Table reports
results for the full sample of stocks, while the right side of the Table reports results for
large-cap stocks. Of course, large-cap stocks are much more likely to be held by institutions.
    For the full sample, we …nd that momentum in non-US markets is primarily an intraday
phenomenon. For eight of the nine countries in our sample, intraday momentum pro…ts are
larger than overnight momentum pro…ts. Indeed, only two countries, Australia and South
Africa, have positive overnight momentum pro…ts that are statistically signi…cant. A value-
weight average of the close-to-close momentum pro…ts is 1.28% per month (t-statistic of
2.55) with 0.96% (t-statistic of 3.62) accruing intraday and only 0.23% (t-statistic of 0.58)
accruing overnight.
  22
   When processing the data, we also compared our accurate measures of open prices to those found on
Datastream. Our analysis indicated that Datastream open prices can be quite misleading.


                                                26
    The results change dramatically for the large-cap sample. Now, six countries have
overnight momentum pro…ts that are larger than the corresponding intraday pro…ts. For
all six of these countries, the overnight component of momentum pro…ts is economically and
statistically signi…cant. Only one country, Germany, has large-cap momentum returns that
are statistically signi…cant intraday. A value-weight average of the close-to-close momentum
pro…ts for the large-cap sample is 1.24% per month (t-statistic of 2.17) with a statistically-
insigni…cant 0.44% (t-statistic of 1.24) accruing intraday and a statistically-signi…cant 0.80%
(t-statistic of 2.50) accruing overnight.
    As a consequence, the change in the overnight and intraday components as one moves
from the full sample to the large-cap sample goes the right way in terms of our institu-
tional clientele interpretation and is quite statistically signi…cant. Speci…cally, the overnight
component increases by 0.57% (t-statistic of 3.13) and the intraday component decreases by
0.52% (t-statistic of -2.78). This di¤erence-in-di¤erence test is consistent with our conjecture
that we should expect momentum to be more of an overnight phenomenon among stocks
with a larger institutional presence.23
    We also extend our industry momentum results to non-US markets. Our focus is on
four market regions (North America, Europe, Asia, and Africa) to ensure reasonably large
industry cross sections. We …nd strong evidence that industry momentum is an overnight
phenomenon. Appendix Table A8 Panel B shows that across these four regions, the average
monthly close-to-close return is 1.01% per month (t-statistic of 2.67) with 0.90% (t-statistic
of 3.35) accruing overnight.

Evidence from pre-1962 US Markets Open prices are also available from CRSP,
sourced from the Wall Street Journal, for the 36-year period of 1927-1962. Of course, these
prices do not have the nice feature of the VWAP approach used in the rest of our analysis
in that they do not necessarily represent traded prices. Nevertheless, this sample provides a
potentially useful placebo test of our hypothesis that institutional ownership is responsible
for the overnight momentum pattern, as institutional ownership was very low for all but the
largest stocks. Indeed, Blume and Keim (2014) indicate that institutions, roughly speaking,
held only …ve percent of equity during most of this time. Consistent with that observation,
Panel A of Appendix Table A9 shows that for this sample, momentum is primarily an in-
traday phenomenon. Momentum has a monthly three-factor alpha of 1.45% (t-statistic of
4.43). The intraday component is 1.03% (t-statistic of 3.43), while the overnight component
is insigni…cant from zero (point estimate of 0.21% with a t-statistic of 0.97).
  23
    Though the equal-weight average intraday component is statistically signi…cant, this is driven entirely
by one country, Germany, whose …nancial system is known to be idiosyncratic.



                                                    27
    In the spirit of our international tests, we also examine whether the overnight component
becomes more important for large-cap stocks in the 1927-1962 sample. Appendix Table A9
Panel B shows that this is the case. Speci…cally, we …nd that large-cap momentum has a
monthly three-factor alpha of 1.39% (t-statistic of 4.74). The intraday component is still
large at 0.95% (t-statistic of 3.51). However, now the overnight component is statistically
signi…cant from zero (point estimate of 0.34% with a t-statistic of 2.05). In summary, though
we have less faith in the pre-1963 open price data, we do …nd that the results using that
data are broadly consistent with the view that institutional investors play an important role
in understanding why momentum is an overnight phenomenon in the 1993-2013 sample.


5    Conclusions
We provide a novel decomposition of the cross section of expected returns into overnight and
intraday components. We …rst show remarkable persistence in the overnight and intraday
components of …rm-level returns, which is consistent with clienteles persistently trading
certain types of stocks either near the open or later during the trading day. We then show
that essentially all of the abnormal returns on momentum and short-term reversal strategies
occur overnight while the abnormal returns on other strategies occur intraday and that this
pattern is not driven by news. In general, these intraday strategies also have an economically
and statistically signi…cant overnight premium that is opposite in sign to their well-known
and often-studied total e¤ect. Taken all together, our …ndings represent a challenge not
only to traditional neoclassical models of risk and return but also to intermediary- and
behavioral-based explanations of the cross section of average returns.
    We document that a relatively large di¤erence between overnight and intraday returns
reveals the extent to which investor clienteles are e¤ectively engaged in a tug of war over the
direction of the strategy in question. We argue that if a strategy’s tug of war at some point
in time is particularly intense, the clientele trading to harvest that strategy’s anomalous
close-to-close returns is more likely to be constrained, and thus is more likely to leave part
of that strategy’s abnormal returns unexploited. Our empirical results con…rm this tug of
war interpretation: A one-standard-deviation increase in a strategy’s T ugOf W ar forecasts
a close-to-close strategy return in the following month that is 1% higher. Our tug of war
measure thus provides a generic predictor for forecasting time-varying expected returns on
anomalies.
    Finally, we zoom in on a speci…c form of investor heterogeneity (institutions vs individu-
als) and a speci…c strategy (price momentum) to understand its overnight / intraday return
patterns in detail. Relative to individuals, we show that institutions as a class (on a value-

                                              28
weight basis) tend to trade against momentum during the day. The degree to which this is
the case, however, varies through time and across stocks, generating a tug of war from intra-
day to overnight. Speci…cally, for those times or those stocks where the institutional holders
have a relatively strong preference to trade against momentum, we …nd that momentum
pro…ts are higher overnight, partially revert intraday, and are larger close-to-close.
    Though our …ndings originate from high frequency decompositions of returns, they have
important repercussions for investors. For one thing, given the large economic magnitudes
of our results, it is possible that trading strategies going into and out of stocks even at
this high frequency may be pro…table after transaction costs for execution-savvy short-term
investors. This claim seems particularly likely for trend-following strategies we have studied
that invest in highly liquid equity index futures. Ignoring that possibility, and focusing on
long-term investors, institutions trading the anomalies at a lower frequency can nonetheless
bene…t from our results by using them to optimally time their orders - at the open vs. close
of trading, depending on the strategy they are pursuing. Finally, our …nding that our tug of
war measure can guide strategy timing should be of broad interest to long-horizon investors
exploiting anomalies.
    Perhaps the ultimate bene…t of our decomposition exercise for long-horizon investors and
researchers alike is to shed light on the causes of these anomalies – to distinguish among,
for example, risk-based vs. behavioral-based vs. institutional-friction-based explanations for
these well-known asset pricing patterns. We hope our strategy timing results o¤er a step in
that direction.




                                             29
References

Ang, Andrew, Robert J. Hodrick, Yuhang Xing, and Xiaoyan Zhang, 2006, “The Cross-
    Section of Volatility and Expected Returns”, Journal of Finance 61:259–299.

Anton, Miguel and Christopher Polk, “Connected Stocks”, Journal of Finance 69:1099–
    1127.

Badrinath, S.G. and Sunil Wahal, 2002, “Momentum Trading by Institutions”, Journal of
    Finance 57, 2449-2478.

Banz, Rolf W., 1981, “The relationship between return and market value of common
    stocks”, Journal of Financial Economics 9 103-126.

Barberis, Nicholas and Andrei Shleifer, 2003, Style investing, Journal of Financial Eco-
    nomics 68 161-199.

Barclay, Michael and Terrance Hendershot, 2003, “Price Discovery and Trading After
    Hours”, Review of Financial Studies 16, 1041-1073.

Berkman, H., P.D. Koch, L. Tuttle, and Y. Zhang, 2009, “Dispersion of Opinions, Short
    Sale Constraints, and Overnight Retums”, University of Auckland Working Paper

Black, Fischer, 1972, Capital Market Equilibrium with Restricted Borrowing, Journal of
    Business 45 444-454.

Blume, Marshall E. and Donald B. Keim, 2014, “The Changing Nature of Institutional
    Stock Investing”, working paper, University of Pennsylvania.

Branch, Ben and Aixin Ma, 2008, “The Overnight Return, One More Anomaly”, working
    paper, University of Massachusetts.

Branch, Ben and Aixin Ma, 2012, “Overnight Return, the Invisible Hand Behind Intraday
    Returns”, Journal of Financial Markets 2, 90-100.

Campbell, John Y., forthcoming, Financial Decisions and Markets: A Course in Asset
   Pricing, Princeton NJ: Princeton University Press.

Campbell, John Y., Stefano Giglio, Christopher Polk, and Robert Turley, 2017, “An In-
   tertemporal CAPM with Stochastic Volatility”, Journal of Financial Economics, forth-
   coming.

Campbell, John Y., Tarun Ramadorai, Allie Schwartz, “Caught on Tape: Institutional
   Trading, Stock Returns, and Earnings Announcements”, Journal of Financial Eco-
   nomics 92: 66-91.

Cli¤, Michael, Michael Cooper, Huseyin Gulen, 2008, “Return Di¤erences between Trading
    and Non-trading Hours: Like Night and Day”, Virginia Tech working paper.



                                          30
Cochrane, John, 2004, Asset Pricing, Revised Edition, Princeton NJ: Princeton University
    Press.

Cochane, John, 2017, “Macro-Finance”, Review of Finance 21, 945-985.

Cohen, Randy, Christopher Polk, and Tuomo Vuolteenaho, 2003, “The Value Spread”,
    Journal of Finance 58:609–671.

Constantinides, George and Darrell Du¢ e, 1996, “Asset Pricing with Heterogenous Con-
    sumers”, Journal of Political Economy 104:219–240.

Daniel, Kent, and Sheridan Titman. 2006, Market Reactions to Tangible and Intangible
    Information, Journal of Finance 61:1605–43.

Daniel, Kent and Tobias Moskowitz, 2013, Momentum Crashes, Columbia University work-
    ing paper.

Datar, Vinay, Narayan Naik, and Robert Radcli¤e, 1998, “Liquidity and asset returns: An
    alternative test”, Journal of Financial Markets 1, 203-220.

Dimson, Elroy, 1979, Risk measurement when shares are subject to infrequent trading,
   Journal of Financial Economics, 7:197-226.

Engelberg, Joseph, R. David McLean, Je¤rey Ponti¤, 2017, “Anomalies and News”, Uni-
    versity of California, San Diego working paper.

Fair…eld, P.M., Whisenant,S.,Yohn,T.L., 2003, “Accrued Earnings and Growth: Implica-
    tions for Future Pro…tability and Market Mispricing”, Accounting Review 78, 353–371.

Fama, Eugene F., 1965, “The Behavior of Stock-Market Prices”, Journal of Business, 38,
   34-105

Fama, Eugene, and James D. MacBeth, 1973, “Risk, Return, and Equilibrium: Empirical
   tests”, Journal of Political Economy 81, 607–636.

Fama, Eugene F. and Kenneth R. French, 1992, “The Cross-Section of Expected Stock
   Returns”, Journal of Finance 47: 427-465.

Fama, Eugene F. and Kenneth R. French, 1993, “Common Risk Factors in the Returns on
   Stocks and Bonds”, Journal of Financial Economics 33:3–56.

Fama, Eugene F. and Kenneth R. French, 1996, “Multifactor Explanations of Asset Pricing
   Anomalies”, Journal of Finance 51:55–84.

Fama, Eugene F. and Kenneth R. French, 2015, “A Five-factor Asset Pricing Model”,
   Journal of Financial Economics 116, 1-22.

Frazzini, Andrea and Lasse H. Pedersen, 2014, “Betting Against Beta”, Journal of Financial
    Economics 111, 1-25.


                                           31
French, Kenneth R., 1980, “Stock Returns and the Weekend E¤ect”, Journal of Financial
    Economics 8, 55-69.

French, Kenneth R. and Richard Roll, 1986, “Stock Return Variances: The Arrival of
    Information of the Reaction of Traders”, Journal of Financial Economics 17, 5-26.

Garleanu, Nicolae and Stavros Panageas, 2015, “Young, Old, Conservative, and Bold: The
    Implications of Heterogeneity and Finite Lives for Asset Pricing”, Journal of Political
    Economy 123, 670–685.

Gompers, Paul and Andrew Metrick, 2001, “Institutional Investors and Asset Prices”, Quar-
   terly Journal of Economics 116 229-259.

Grinblatt, Mark, Sheridan Titman, and Russ Wermers, 1995, “Momentum Investment
    Strategies, Portfolio Performance, and Herding: A Study of Mutual Fund Behavior”,
    American Economic Review 85 1088–1105.

Gromb, Denis and Dimitri Vayanos, 2010, “Limits of Arbitrage: The State of the Theory”
   Annual Review of Financial Economics 2, 251-275.

Hanson, Sam and Adi Sunderam, 2014, “The Growth and Limits of Arbitrage: Evidence
   from Short Interest”, Review of Financial Studies 27 1238–1286.

Harrison, J. Michael and David M. Kreps, 1978, “Speculative Investor Behavior in a Stock
    Market with Heterogenous Expectations”, The Quarterly Journal of Economics 92
    323–336.

Haugan, Robert A and Nardin L. Baker, 1996, “Commonality in the determinants of ex-
   pected stock returns”, Journal of Financial Economics 41:401–439.

He, Zhiguo and Arvind Krishnamurthy, 2013, “Intermediary Asset Pricing”, American
    Economic Review 103:732–770.

Heston, Steven L., Robert Korajczyk, and Ronnie Sadka, 2010, “Intraday Patterns in the
    Cross-Section of Stock Returns”, Journal of Finance 65, 1369-1407.

Horowitz, Joel L., Tim Loughran, and N.E. Savin, 2000, “Three Analyses of the Firm Size
    Premium”, Journal of Empirical Finance 7, 143–153.

Jegadeesh, Narasimhan, 1990, Evidence of Predictable Behavior of Security Returns, Jour-
    nal of Finance 45, 881–898.

Jegadeesh, Narasimhan and Sheridan Titman, 1993, Returns to Buying Winners and Selling
    Losers: Implications for Stock Market E¢ ciency, Journal of Finance 48, 65–91.

Kelly, M. and S. Clark, 2011, “Returns in Trading Versus Non-Trading Hours: The Di¤er-
     ence Is Day and Night,”Journal of Asset Management 12 , 132-145.

La Porta, R., J. Lakonishok, A. Shleifer, and R. Vishny, 1997, “Good news for value stocks:
    further evidence on market e¢ ciency,”Journal of Finance 52 859-874.

                                           32
Lakonishok, J., A. Shleifer, R, Thaler, and R. Vishny, 1991, “Window Dressing By Pension
    Fund Mangers,”American Economic Review Papers and Proceeedings 81 227-231.

Lee, Charles M. C. and Bhaskaran Swaminathan, 2000, Price Momentum and Trading
    Volume, Journal of Finance 55, 2017–2069.

Lettau, Martin and Jessica Wachter, 2007, Why Is Long-Horizon Equity Less Risky? A
    Duration-Based Explanation of the Value Premium, Journal of Finance 62, 55–92.

Lintner, John, 1965, “The Valuation of Risk Assets on the Selection of Risky Investments in
    Stock Portfolios and Capital Budgets”, Review of Economics and Statistics 47:13-37.

Lou, Dong, 2012, A Flow-Based Explanation for Return Predictability, Review of Financial
    Studies, 25, 3457-3489.

Lou, Dong and Christopher Polk, 2013, Comomentum: Inferring Arbitrage Activity from
    Return Correlations, London School of Economics working paper.

Lucca, David O. and Emanuel Moench, 2015, “The Pre-FOMC Announcement Drift”,
    Journal of Finance 70, 329-371.

Merton, Robert C., 1973, “An Intertemporal Capital Asset Pricing Model”, Econometrica
    41:867–887.

Merton, Robert C., 1987, “A Simple Model of Capital Market Equilibrium with Incomplete
    Information”, Journal of Finance 42, 483-510.

Moskowitz, Tobias and Mark Grinblatt, 1999, “Do Industries Explain Momentum”, Journal
   of Finance 54, 1249-1290.

Moskowitz, Tobias, Yao Hua Ooi, and Lasse Pedersen, 2012, “Time Series Momentum”,
   Journal of Financial Economics 104, 228-250.

Novy-Marx, Robert, 2013, “The Other Side of Value: The Gross Pro…tability Premium”,
   Journal of Financial Economics 108, 1-28.

Polk, Christopher and Paola Sapienza, 2009, “The Stock Market and Corporate Investment:
    A Test of Catering Theory”, Review of Financial Studies 22 187-217.

Savor, Pavel and Mungo Wilson, 2014, “Asset Pricing: A Tale of Two Days”, Journal of
    Financial Economics 113, 117-201.

Schwert, William, 2003, “Anomalies and Market E¢ ciency.” Chapter 15 in the Handbook
    of the Economics of Finance, edited by G. Constantinides, M. Harris, and R. Stulz,
    Eslevier.

Sharpe, William, 1964, Capital Asset Prices: A Theory of Market Equilibrium under Con-
    ditions of Risk, Journal of Finance 19:425-442.



                                           33
Sloan, Richard, 1996, Do Stock Prices Fully Re‡ect Information in Accruals and Cash Flows
    about Future Earnings?, The Accounting Review 71:289–315.

Tao, Cai and Mei Qiu, 2008, “The International Evidence of the Overnight Return Anom-
    aly”, Massey University working paper.

Titman, S., Wei, K.C, and F. Xie, 2004, “Capital Investments and Stock Returns”, Journal
    of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 39 677–700.

Vuolteenaho, Tuomo, 2002, “What Drives Firm-Level Stock Returns?”, Journal of Finance
    57, 233-264.




                                          34
                  Table I: Overnight/Intraday Return Persistence/Reversal

This table reports overnight/intraday return persistence and reversal patterns. In Panel A, at the
end of each month, all stocks are sorted into deciles based on their lagged one-month overnight
returns. In Panel B, stocks are sorted based on their lagged one-month intraday returns. We then
go long the value-weight winner decile and short the value-weight loser decile. The first three
columns show the overnight return in the subsequent month of the two short-term reversal
strategies, and the next three columns show the intraday returns in the subsequent month. Stocks
with prices below $5 a share and/or that are in the bottom NYSE size quintile are excluded from
the sample. We report monthly portfolio returns in excess of the risk-free rate, adjusted by the
CAPM, and by the three-factor model. We compute t-statistics, shown in parentheses, based on
standard errors corrected for serial-dependence with 12 lags. 5% statistical significance is indicated
in bold.

                  Panel A: Portfolios Sorted by One-Month Overnight Returns
                              Overnight                         Intraday
             Decile   Excess CAPM 3-Factor             Excess CAPM 3-Factor
               1      -1.51% -1.70% -1.73%              1.62%    1.23%    1.06%
                      (-7.76)   (-9.88)    (-9.77)      (4.76)   (4.55)   (4.15)
              10      1.96%     1.73%      1.74%       -1.63% -2.07% -1.96%
                       (8.17)   (8.60)     (8.69)      (-4.74)   (-8.58)  (-9.03)
             10 - 1   3.47%     3.42%      3.47%       -3.24% -3.30% -3.02%
                     (16.57) (16.57) (16.83)           (-9.34)   (-9.00)  (-9.74)



                    Panel B: Portfolios Sorted by One-Month Intraday Returns
                               Overnight                          Intraday
             Decile    Excess CAPM 3-Factor              Excess CAPM 3-Factor
               1       1.59%      1.32%     1.35%        -1.51% -2.04% -2.14%
                        (5.51)    (5.28)    (5.04)       (-3.45)   (-6.58)  (-6.95)
              10       -0.22% -0.41% -0.42%               0.69%    0.32%    0.27%
                       (-1.20)   (-2.68)    (-2.64)       (2.51)   (1.76)    (1.57)
             10 - 1    -1.81% -1.73% -1.77%               2.19%    2.36%    2.41%
                       (-8.44)   (-8.16)    (-7.89)       (6.72)   (7.56)    (7.70)
                     Table II: Overnight/Intraday Return Decomposition

This table reports returns to the CRSP index as well as various cross-sectional strategies during
the day vs. at night. In the left column of the first row, we examine the overnight/intraday returns
of the value-weight CRSP index. For the rest of the table, we report returns of long-short portfolios
where we go long one extreme value-weight decile (quintile) and short the other extreme value-
weight decile (quintile) based on a particular firm/industry characteristic. In the right column of
row 1, at the end of each month, all stocks are sorted into deciles based on the prior month market
capitalization. In row 2, stocks are sorted into decile portfolios based on lagged book-to-market
ratio and lagged 12-month cumulative returns (skipping the most recent month), respectively. In
the left column of row 3, stocks are sorted into deciles based on prior quarter earnings surprises (=
actual earnings — consensus forecast); in the right column, all industries are sorted into quintiles
based on lagged 12-month cumulative industry returns. In row 4, stocks are sorted into deciles
based on lagged return-to-equity and lagged asset growth, respectively. In row 5, stocks are sorted
into deciles based on lagged 12-month market betas (using daily returns with three lags and
summing coefficients) and lagged 12-month daily idiosyncratic volatilities (with respect to the
Carhart four-factor model), respectively. In row 6, stocks are sorted into deciles based on equity
issuance in the prior year and lagged discretionary accruals, respectively. In row 7, stocks are sorted
into deciles based on lagged 12-month share turnover and lagged one month returns, respectively.
To aid in the readability of the table, the cross-sectional strategies are designed to have positive
average returns based on the findings in previous research. Thus, we are long small-cap stocks,
value stocks, past one-year winners, high earnings surprise stocks, past one-month industry winners,
high profitability, low asset growth, low beta, low idiosyncratic volatility, low equity issuance, low
accruals, low turnover, and low past one-month losers. For example, we go long small-cap stocks
and short large-cap stocks. Stocks with prices below $5 a share and/or that are in the bottom NYSE
size quintile are excluded from the sample. We report monthly portfolio returns adjusted by the
CAPM in all instances except for the CRSP strategy, where we simply report excess returns. T-
statistics, shown in parentheses, are computed based on standard errors corrected for serial-
dependence with 12 lags. 5% statistical significance is indicated in bold.

                             Overnight-Intraday Return Decomposition
                         Overnight      Intraday                   Overnight      Intraday
             CRSP          0.55%         0.38%           ME          0.11%         0.43%
                            (3.62)       (1.87)                       (0.75)        (1.85)
              BM           -0.10%        0.48%         MOM           0.98%         -0.02%
                           (-0.67)       (2.21)                       (3.84)       (-0.06)
              SUE          0.56%         0.21%       INDMOM          1.07%         -0.63%
                            (3.20)       (0.70)                       (6.47)       (-2.03)
              ROE          -0.95%        1.42%          INV          -0.28%        0.97%
                           (-6.25)       (5.58)                      (-2.10)        (4.39)
             BETA          -0.49%        0.70%         IVOL          -1.46%        2.48%
                           (-2.17)       (2.40)                      (-5.23)        (6.21)
             ISSUE         -0.52%        1.13%      ACCRUALS         -0.47%        1.10%
                           (-3.27)       (6.13)                      (-3.25)        (4.73)
         TURNOVER          -0.29%        0.57%          STR          0.93%         -1.05%
                           (-1.98)       (2.58)                       (4.28)       (-3.25)
                                  Table III: Time Series Momentum Returns

This table reports returns to the time-series momentum strategy of Moskowitz, Ooi and Pedersen (2012), during
the day vs. at night for the period 1996 to 2016, for 22 equity index futures listed in Panel B. In Panel A, returns
are calculated based on TRTH data, with intraday returns for each index calculated as the returns of the front
futures contract, from the 30 minute VWAP centered on the “open” (defined as the minute before noon with
the largest number of trades where trades are summed over all days), and the 30 minute VWAP centered on the
“close” (busiest minute after noon). Overnight returns are the returns between the close on day t-1 and the open
on day t of the front contract on date t (corresponding to rolling on expiration), with any missing data handled
as with our equity data. Specifically, we split monthly returns exactly into intraday and overnight components,
corresponding to returns of a strategy that aims to execute intraday and overnight round-trips, without any
forward-looking information about which observations are available. Where there is a missing open price at date
t, but there is a close price at date t-1, we define the overnight returns for day t as the percent price change
between the close price at date t-1 and the first available open or close price on t or later, assuming such is
available before contract expiration; if no such price is available, we use any one minute VWAP that is available
on the last date before expiration; if no such price is available either, we assign zero to this overnight return
(though this scenario is extremely rare). Similarly, if an open price is available on date t but a close price is not,
we define intraday returns so that they correspond to the return of a position opened at the open on day t. All
intraday, overnight or close-to-close drops of more than 30% are treated as missing, as are increases of more than
50%, though excluding either has no qualitative effect on our results. From daily intraday, overnight and close-
to-close returns, we aggregate to monthly returns as with our TAQ stock data used in cross-sectional momentum.
The first column reports the simple monthly average return of the strategy; Column 2 reports the CAPM alpha;
Column 3 reports the Fama-French 3-Factor alpha; Column 4 reports the 4-Factor alpha, which also includes
the UMD factor. The last two columns report the standard deviation and skewness of the overnight and intraday
returns of the time-series momentum strategy. T-statistics, shown in parentheses, are computed based on
standard errors corrected for serial-dependence with 12 lags. 5% statistical significance is indicated in bold.

                            Panel A: Time-Series Momentum Return Decomposition
                                     Raw    CAPM 3-Factor 4-Factor Stdev                     Skew
                  Close-to-close 0.81% 1.29%         1.31%    1.50%   7.30%                 -0.491
                                    (1.39)   (2.04)  (2.05)   (2.42)
                    Overnight       1.10% 1.40%      1.42%    1.54%   4.24%                 0.178
                                    (2.67)   (3.24)  (3.18)   (3.64)
                     Intraday      -0.29% -0.10% -0.10% -0.04% 4.85%                        -2.767
                                   (-0.78) (-0.24) (-0.26) (-0.11)
             Panel B: List of Futures Contracts
           Equity Index                      Start Date
AEX (Netherlands)                          14-Jan-2004
JSE (South Africa)                          07-Jul-2005
Athens LargeCap (Greece)                  26-May-2000
S&P500 MINI (U.S)                          10-Sep-1997
CAC40 (France)                             07-Jan-1999
DAX (Germany)                             04-Nov-2008
FTSE 100 (UK)                             14-Nov-2001
SMI (Switzerland)                         04-Nov-2008
HANG SENG (Hong Kong)                      04-Sep-2000
FTSE/MIB (Italy)                           23-Mar-2004
BMFBOVESPA (Brazil)                       15-Dec-2009
IPC (Mexico)                               28-Jun-1999
TOPIX (Japan)                              12-Jun-2001
KOPSI 200 (Korea)                          13-Jan-1997
IBEX35 (Spain)                             09-Jan-1996
RTS INDEX (Russia)                         03-Oct-2006
CNX NIFTY (India)                          11-Oct-2005
MSCI SINGAPORE                             18-Jan-2005
Eurostoxx 50 (Europe)                     04-Nov-2008
S&P Canada 60                              10-Sep-1999
Taiwan                                     14-Jun-2000
SPI200 (Australia)                        03-May-2000
                        Table IV: Fama-MacBeth Return Regressions

This table reports Fama-MacBeth regressions of monthly stocks returns on lagged firm
characteristics. The dependent variable in the first column is the close-to-close return in the
following month; the dependent variable in the second column is the overnight return in the
following month, and the dependent variable in the third column is the intraday return in the
following month. In Column 4, we report the difference between the coefficients in Columns 2 and
3 (i.e., overnight-intraday). In Column 5, we report the difference between the overnight coefficient
*24/17.5 and intraday coefficient *24/6.5. The independent variables include the most recent one
month overnight return ( _            ), the most recent one month intraday return ( _         ), the
exponentially weighted moving average (             _    ) overnight return (with a half-life to 60
months and skipping the most recent month), the exponentially weighted moving average
(        _   ) intraday return (with a half-life to 60 months and skipping the most recent month),
the lagged 12-month cumulative stock return (skipping the most recent month), market
capitalization, book-to-market ratio, 12-month daily idiosyncratic volatility (with regard to the
Carhart four factor model, with one lead and one lag), 12-month market beta (using daily returns
with three lags), 12-month share turnover, return-on-equity, asset growth, equity issuance, and
discretionary accruals. Stocks with prices below $5 a share and/or that are in the bottom NYSE
size quintile are excluded from the sample. Stock returns are expressed in percentage terms.
Observations are weighted by lagged market capitalization in each cross sectional regression.
Standard errors, shown in brackets, are adjusted for serial-dependence with 12 lags. *, **, ***
denote statistical significance at the 90%, 95%, and 99% level, respectively.
            Close-to-                             Overnight-    Scaled
X 100                   Overnight    Intraday
             Close                                 Intraday    Difference
               [1]         [2]          [3]           [4]          [5]
  _           -0.161     4.585***     -4.792***    9.377***    23.982***
              [0.697]      [0.480]      [0.574]     [0.802]       [2.313]
  _         -2.959***    -7.444***    4.484***    -11.928***   -26.766***
              [0.686]      [0.863]      [0.724]     [1.437]       [3.546]
        _     -4.910     16.836***   -21.685***   38.520***    103.156***
              [4.228]      [2.804]      [4.155]     [5.639]      [16.852]
        _     -2.456    -15.564***   13.583***    -29.147***   -71.499***
              [3.566]      [4.551]      [4.002]     [7.849]      [19.577]
               0.232     0.640***      -0.415**    1.056***     2.411***
              [0.284]      [0.143]      [0.186]     [0.176]       [0.622]
              -0.076     0.141***     -0.227***    0.368***     1.031***
              [0.056]      [0.028]      [0.042]     [0.045]       [0.152]
               0.028     0.148***       -0.120*    0.268***      0.646**
              [0.074]      [0.054]      [0.071]     [0.102]       [0.295]
              -0.045      0.165**      -0.149**    0.314***     0.777***
              [0.097]      [0.075]      [0.063]     [0.098]       [0.254]
              -0.073        0.125       -0.200*     0.325**      0.910**
              [0.171]      [0.119]      [0.111]     [0.151]       [0.419]
              0.102*     0.197***     -0.124***    0.322***     0.729***
              [0.061]      [0.044]      [0.038]     [0.055]       [0.147]
               0.214      -0.214**      0.427*     -0.641**     -1.870**
              [0.250]      [0.105]      [0.244]     [0.280]       [0.934]
             -0.531**       0.001      -0.542**     0.542**     2.001***
              [0.210]      [0.100]      [0.197]     [0.229]       [0.752]
            -0.878***      -0.238     -0.635***       0.397      2.019**
              [0.279]      [0.217]      [0.210]     [0.327]       [0.877]
              -0.403       -0.239        -0.210      -0.029        0.447
              [0.477]      [0.283]      [0.434]     [0.551]       [1.703]

Adj-R2        0.128       0.106        0.135
No. Obs.     454,825     454,825      454,825
                     Table V: Forecasting Close-to-Close Factor Returns

This table reports regressions of close-to-close factor returns on lagged return differentials between
the overnight and intraday components of the same factor. The dependent variable in each row is
the monthly return to a factor portfolio (top decile minus bottom decile), and the independent
variable of interest is TugOfWar, defined in equation (1) of Section 4.4. Specifically, a strategy’s
TugOfWar is the appropriately signed lagged difference between the exponentially weighted moving
average (EWMA) of the intraday component and the EWMA of the overnight component of that
strategy (as equation (1) details, for the two strategies which have their premia earned overnight,
MOM and STR, we instead subtract the intraday EWMA from the overnight EWMA). We use a
half-life of 60 months in the EWMA. We also include in the regression a corresponding EWMA of
the lagged factor return, and that of lagged monthly factor volatility. Other controls include the
lagged 12-month market return and market volatility, the characteristic spread between the
strategy’s long leg and short leg, and the difference in short interest between the strategy’s long leg
and short leg. In row 1, stocks are sorted into deciles based on the lagged 12 month cumulative
return; in row 2, stocks are sorted into deciles based on the lagged market capitalization; in row 3,
stocks are sorted into deciles based on lagged book-to-market ratio; in row 4, stocks are sorted into
deciles based on lagged profitability; in row 5 stocks are sorted into deciles based on lagged asset
growth; in row 6, stocks are sorted into deciles based on lagged 12-month market betas (using daily
returns with three lags and summing coefficients); in row 7, stocks are sorted into deciles based on
their lagged 12-month daily idiosyncratic volatilities (with regard to the Carhart four factor model);
in row 8, stocks are sorted into deciles based on equity issuance in the prior year; in row 9, stocks
are sorted into deciles based on lagged discretionary accruals; in row 10, stocks are sorted into
deciles based on lagged 12-month share turnover; in row 11, stocks are sorted into deciles based on
lagged one month returns. T-statistics, shown in parentheses, are computed based on standard
errors corrected for serial-dependence with 12 lags. 5% statistical significance is indicated in bold.
A statistical test of the null hypothesis that the forecasting coefficients on TugOfWar in these
eleven regressions are jointly zero is easily rejected (p< 0.01).

                                     Depvar = Factor Returnt+1
                            TugOfWart                Factor Returnt              Factor Volt
                         1.967        (2.48)       0.001        (0.00)       -1.189       (-1.46)
                         1.027        (1.57)       0.557        (1.01)       -1.207       (-1.18)
                        -0.074       (-0.12)       -0.314       (-0.39)      1.212        (1.30)
                         1.100        (2.47)       -1.255       (-1.29)      1.279        (1.62)
                         1.339        (1.93)       -1.061       (-1.32)      0.821        (1.04)
                         1.340        (1.18)       0.024        (0.03)       -0.427       (-0.58)
                         1.207        (2.11)       -1.228       (-1.33)      1.842        (1.76)
                         2.277        (2.86)       -5.258       (-4.00)      0.281        (0.41)
                         0.470        (0.95)       -1.197       (-1.30)      2.045        (3.62)
                         2.098        (3.53)       -0.901       (-0.93)      0.858        (0.95)
                         1.402        (2.39)       -2.890       (-2.43)      -1.236       (-1.83)
               Table VI: Institutional Trading and Contemporaneous Returns

This table reports Fama-MacBeth regressions of changes in institutional ownership on
contemporaneous stock returns. The dependent variable is the change in the fraction of shares
outstanding held by all institutional investors. The independent variable in Column 1 is the
cumulative overnight return measured in the contemporaneous period, and that in Column 2 is the
cumulative intraday return in the same period. Column 3 reports the difference between the
coefficients on overnight vs. intraday cumulative returns. Panel A uses quarterly changes in
institutional ownership as reported in 13-F filings. Panel B uses daily changes in institutional
ownership as inferred from large trades in the TAQ database (following Campbell, Ramadorai and
Schwartz, 2008). Stocks with prices below $5 a share and/or that are in the bottom NYSE size
quintile are excluded from the sample. We further sort stocks into five quintiles based on
institutional ownership at the beginning of the quarter and conduct the same regression for each
IO quintile. Standard errors, shown in brackets, are adjusted for serial-dependence with 12 lags. *,
**, *** denote statistical significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% level, respectively.

                                 Panel A: Quarterly Change in IO
              DepVar = Contemporaneous Qtrly Change in Institutional Ownership
                                                                Overnight —
                IO     Overnight Return Intraday Return
                                                                  Intraday
                 1          -0.003            0.030*               -0.033
                               [0.007]             [0.017]               [0.022]
                 5             -0.008             0.070***             -0.077***
                               [0.006]             [0.010]               [0.006]
                5-1            -0.005              0.039*               -0.044*
                               [0.008]             [0.023]               [0.027]


                                   Panel B: Daily Change in IO
              DepVar = Contemporaneous Daily Change in Institutional Ownership
                                                                Overnight —
                IO     Overnight Return Intraday Return
                                                                  Intraday
                 1         0.177***          0.159***               0.018
                               [0.041]             [0.019]               [0.040]
                 5            0.130***            1.254***             -1.123***
                               [0.039]             [0.116]               [0.104]
                5-1            -0.047             1.095***             -1.141***
                               [0.051]             [0.078]               [0.062]
                                Table VII: Momentum Trading

This table examines the potential role of institutions’ momentum trading. Panel A reports two-
stage Fama-MacBeth forecasting regressions of changes in institutional ownership on the
momentum characteristic. The dependent variable in the first stage is the change in the fraction of
shares outstanding held by all institutional investors (as reported in 13F filings) in the subsequent
quarter and the independent variable is the lagged 12-month cumulative stock return. In the second
stage, we regress the time-series of first stage momentum coefficients on a constant and on our
measure of arbitrage trading in the momentum strategy, COMOM, a tercile dummy ranging from
0 to 2 that is constructed from comomentum, defined as the average pairwise partial return
correlation in the loser decile ranked in the previous 12 months. We estimate both stages by OLS
in the first two columns and by WLS (with weights proportional to lagged market capitalization)
in the next two columns. Changes in institutional ownership are expressed in percentage terms.
Panels B and C report, respectively, the overnight and intraday returns to the momentum strategy
as a function of lagged comomentum. All months in our sample are classified into three groups
based on comomentum. Reported in these two panels are the overnight/intraday returns to the
momentum strategy (i.e., long the value-weight winner decile and short the value-weight loser
decile) in the two years after portfolio formation, following low to high COMOM. Stocks with prices
below $5 a share and/or that are in the bottom NYSE size quintile are excluded from the sample.
Standard errors are adjusted for serial-dependence with 12 lags. R2 (1st stage) is the average R2 of
all the cross-sectional regressions from the first stage (as in other tables with Fama-MacBeth
regressions) and is therefore constant across the second stage specifications estimated with the same
method. R2 (2nd stage) is the R2 from the forecasting regression of Fama-MacBeth coefficients on
COMOM. *, **, *** denote statistical significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% level, respectively.

                Panel A: DepVar = Subsequent Change in Institutional Ownership
                                       Second stage regression forecasting the Fama-
          X 100
                                                   MacBeth coefficients
                                        [1]             [2]         [3]             [4]
                                                OLS                         WLS
          Constant                     0.189           -0.240    -0.260**         -0.737**
                                      [0.117]         [0.215]     [0.119]          [0.317]
          COMOM                                       0.199**                      0.233*
                                                      [0.088]                      [0.125]

          Adj-R2 (1st stage)           0.003           0.003       0.004           0.004
          Adj-R2 (2st stage)                           0.022                       0.021
          No. Obs.                    181,891         181,891    181,891          181,891
          Panel B: Overnight Momentum Returns
COMOM                     Year 1               Year 2
 Rank   No Obs.    Estimate      t-stat Estimate      t-stat
   1      72        1.14%        (4.76)   0.95%       (3.80)
   2      72        1.04%        (4.41)  -0.03%      (-0.10)
   3      72        -0.41%      (-0.61)  -1.30%      (-3.02)
  3-1               -1.56%      (-2.22)  -2.26%      (-4.05)


          Panel C: Intraday Momentum Returns
COMOM                     Year 1               Year 2
 Rank   No Obs.   Estimate       t-stat Estimate      t-stat
   1      72        -0.92%      (-2.95)  -0.62%      (-3.12)
   2      72        -0.84%      (-2.09)  -0.70%      (-1.40)
   3      72        0.19%        (0.36)   0.24%       (0.42)
  3-1               1.11%        (1.79)   0.86%       (2.04)
                                 Table VIII: Rebalancing Trades

This table examines the potential role of institutions’ rebalancing trades. Panel A reports Fama-
MacBeth forecasting regressions of changes in institutional ownership on the momentum
characteristic. The dependent variable is the change in the fraction of shares outstanding held by
all institutional investors (as reported in 13F filings) in the subsequent quarter. The main
independent variable is the lagged 12-month cumulative stock return. We also include in the
regression AWGHT, a quintile dummy constructed each quarter based on the active weight of the
aggregate institutional portfolio (i.e., the aggregate weight of all institutions in a stock minus that
in the market portfolio), as well as the interaction term between AWGHT and the lagged 12-month
return. We estimate OLS in the first two columns and WLS (with weights proportional to lagged
market capitalization) in the next two columns. Panels B and C report, respectively, the overnight
and intraday returns to the momentum strategy as a function of institutional active weight. In
particular, in each month, stocks are sorted independently into a 5X5 matrix by both institutional
AWGHT from the most recent quarter and lagged 12-month stock returns. Reported in these two
panels are the overnight/intraday returns to the momentum strategy (i.e., long the value-weight
winner decile and short the value-weight loser decile) in the following month. Stocks with prices
below $5 a share and/or that are in the bottom NYSE size quintile are excluded from the sample.
Standard errors are adjusted for serial-dependence with 12 lags. *, **, *** denote statistical
significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% level, respectively.

                Panel A: DepVar = Subsequent Change in Institutional Ownership

           X 100                                  Fama-MacBeth Regressions
                                         [1]             [2]         [3]             [4]
                                                 OLS                         WLS
           MOM                          0.189      0.620***       -0.260**        0.210*
                                       [0.117]       [0.128]       [0.119]        [0.114]
           MOM X AWGHT                             -0.182***                    -0.143***
                                                     [0.043]                      [0.046]
           AWGHT                                   -0.292***                    -0.178***
                                                     [0.022]                      [0.015]

           Adj-R2                       0.003           0.015       0.004           0.017
           No. Obs.                    181,891         181,891     181,891         181,891
          Panel B: Overnight MOM Returns
                 Institutional Active Weight
MOM      1       2         3       4       5  5-1
 1    0.52% 0.00% -0.07% -0.08% -0.27% -0.79%
      (1.91) (0.01) (-0.33) (-0.39) (-1.21) (-4.32)
 5    0.79% 0.53% 0.44% 0.67% 1.15% 0.36%
      (4.31) (2.60) (2.22) (3.64) (6.66) (3.37)
5—1   0.27% 0.53% 0.51% 0.75% 1.42% 1.15%
      (1.10) (2.68) (2.72) (4.54) (7.92) (5.39)


           Panel C: Intraday MOM Returns
                  Institutional Active Weight
MOM      1        2         3       4       5     5-1
 1    -0.36% 0.18% 0.71% 0.51% 0.38%            0.74%
      (-0.92) (0.43) (1.63) (1.23) (1.03)        (3.03)
 5    -0.44% 0.44% 0.55% 0.24% -0.46%           -0.02%
      (-1.71) (1.45) (1.81) (0.87) (-1.89)      (-0.14)
5—1   -0.09% 0.26% -0.16% -0.27% -0.84%         -0.76%
      (-0.24) (0.75) (-0.48) (-0.84) (-2.62)    (-2.70)
   16%

                                                              Dollar Volume over 30‐Minute Intervals
   14%


   12%


   10%


    8%


    6%


    4%


    2%


    0%
          9:30   10:00 10:30 11:00 11:30 12:00 12:30 13:00 13:30 14:00 14:30 15:00 15:30

Figure 1: This figure shows dollar trading volume over 30-minute intervals throughout the trading
day. In particular, we first sum up the amount of dollars traded in each of these half-hour windows.
We then compute the fraction of total daily volume (i.e., the sum over these 13 windows) that is
accounted for by each 30-minute interval. In other words, these red bars sum up to 1. The first
half-hour window that starts at 9:30am also includes the open auction. The last half-hour window
that starts at 3:30pm also includes last-minute (i.e., 4pm) trades and trades from the closing auction.
                             20
                                                                       overnight‐>overnight
                                                                       overnight‐>intraday
                                                                       intraday‐>overnight
                             15                                        intraday‐>intraday



                             10




T‐Statistics in Event Time
                              5



                              0



                              ‐5



                             ‐10
                                   1   13   25              37                49

Figure 2: This figure shows the t-statistics of the overnight/intraday return persistence test, as
reported in Table VI. We extend our analysis in Table VI by varying the lag between the ranking
period and holding period from one month all the way to sixty months (i.e., as shown by the X-
axis). Stocks with prices below $5 a share and/or that are in the bottom NYSE size quintile are
excluded from the sample. The dotted green curve corresponds to using lagged overnight returns to
forecast future overnight returns. The dashed orange curve corresponds to using lagged intraday
returns to forecast future intraday returns. The dashed blue curve corresponds to using lagged
overnight returns to forecast future intraday returns. Finally, the dashed red curve corresponds to
using lagged intraday returns to forecast future overnight returns.
   16%
                                                                 Small Trades over 30‐Min Intervals
                                                                 Large Trades over 30‐Min Intervals
   14%


   12%


   10%


    8%


    6%


    4%


    2%


    0%
          9:30   10:00 10:30 11:00 11:30 12:00 12:30 13:00 13:30 14:00 14:30 15:00 15:30

Figure 3: This figure shows dollar trading volume of large (depicted by blue bars) vs. small orders
(depicted by red bars) over 30-minute intervals throughout the trading day for the period 1993-
2000. We define small orders as those below $5,000 and large orders as those above $50,000. More
specifically, we first sum up the amount of dollars traded in each of these half-hour windows. We
then compute the fraction of total daily volume (i.e., the sum over these 13 windows) that is
accounted for by each 30-minute interval. In other words, both the red bars and blue bars sum up
to 1. The first half-hour window that starts at 9:30am also includes the open auction. The last half-
hour window that starts at 3:30pm also includes the last-minute (i.e., 4pm) trades and closing
auction.
