                                     Segmentation and Time-of-Day Patterns in
                                     Foreign Exchange Markets
                                     Angelo Ranaldo




         2007-3




Swiss National Bank Working Papers
The views expressed in this paper are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily
represent those of the Swiss National Bank. Working Papers describe research in progress.
Their aim is to elicit comments and to further debate.

ISSN 1660-7716

© 2007 by Swiss National Bank, Börsenstrasse 15, P.O. Box, CH-8022 Zurich
     Segmentation and Time-of-Day Patterns in
            Foreign Exchange Markets∗
                                  Angelo Ranaldo†
                                Swiss National Bank
                                 December 21, 2006




   ∗ The views expressed herein are those of the author and not necessarily those of the

Swiss National Bank, which does not accept any responsibility for the contents and opinions
expressed in this paper. I am very grateful to Adrian Trapletti for his insightful suggestions
and generous support. The author also thanks Katrin Assenmacher, Dagfinn Rime, Paul
Söderlind and an anonymous referee for their comments. All errors remain mine.
   † Angelo Ranaldo, Swiss National Bank, Research, Börsenstrasse 15, P.O. Box 2800,

Zurich, Switzerland.     E-mail: angelo.ranaldo@snb.ch, Phone: ++41.44.6313826, Fax:
++41.44.6313901.
    Segmentation and Time-of-Day Patterns in
           Foreign Exchange Markets
Abstract: This paper sheds light on a puzzling pattern in foreign exchange
markets: Domestic currencies appreciate (depreciate) systematically during for-
eign (domestic) working hours. These time-of-day patterns are statistically and
economically highly significant. They pervasively persist across many years,
even after accounting for calendar eﬀects. This phenomenon is diﬃcult to rec-
oncile with the random walk and market eﬃciency hypothesis. Microstructural
and behavioural explanations suggest that the main raison d’être is a domestic-
currency bias coupled with market segmentation. The prevalence of domestic
(foreign) traders demanding the counterpart currency during domestic (foreign)
working hours implies a cyclical net positive (negative) imbalance in dealers’
inventory. In aggregate, this turns into sell-price (buy-price) pressure on the
domestic currency during domestic (foreign) working hours.
Keywords: foreign exchange market; microstructure; behavioural finance; time-
of-day patterns; market segmentation; calendar eﬀects; inventory; asymmetric
information; high-frequency data.

JEL Classifications: F31; G10; G14; G15.
1     Introduction
This paper provides striking evidence on spot exchange rates: Home currencies
depreciate systematically during domestic working hours and appreciate during
the working hours of the foreign counterpart country. Our database covers
more than a decade’s worth of data stored in a high-frequency database, with
several currency pairs that, taken together, cover more than 52% of total market
turnover by currency pair in 2004 (BIS (2005)). A clear picture emerges: first,
this pervasive time-of-day pattern is highly significant, both statistically and
economically; second, it spans many years and overrides calendar eﬀects.
    The fact that exchange rates follow cyclical patterns during the day chal-
lenges the random walk and eﬃcient market hypothesis. An eﬃcient market is
one where the market price is an unbiased estimate of the true asset value. De-
viations between true and market prices should be random, not systematic and
cyclical. Given its characteristics, the foreign exchange market is the foremost
aspirant to market eﬃciency. It is the world’s largest financial market1 , with
low transaction costs, and is widely backed by derivative instruments. It is a
real global market open 24 hours a day. In it, various atomistic and price-taking
market participants trade identical assets virtually, from many locations, and
they can react almost instantaneously to news items. Operationally, trades are
triggered on several competing microstructures and exchange systems, such as
through dealers, brokers, ECNs, phone networks and nonbank internet sites.2
Why do so many rational and utility-maximising investors systematically incur
recurrent higher transaction costs in such a competitive environment? Why do
they not arbitrage this market anomaly?
    After having documented the statistical and economic significance of this
phenomenon, we attempt to explain why it exists. On the basis of a simple
microstructural framework, we identify the main factors that help to determine
these patterns. Two main explanations emerge: inventory and asymmetric in-
formation eﬀects. The former refers to imbalances in the inventories of liquidity
suppliers that are caused by systematic excess demand or supply at specific in-
traday times. The latter refers to the possibility that traders may profit from
superior information because of their networking, trading location and the time
zone in which they operate. We argue that the former factor is more impor-
tant. In particular, this main explanation is derived from a combination of
two factors: first, the prevalence of domestic currencies in the portfolio allo-
   1 The average daily turnover on the foreign exchange market amounted to $1.9 trillion in

April 2001 (BIS, 2005), more than 5 times the yearly turnover of all equities traded at NYSE.
   2 E.g. Deal4Free of CMC established in 1996; IFX Markets (since 1999); MatchbookFX

(started in 1999 and closed down in 2000); HotSpotFX (since 2001) and Oanda (since 2001).


                                             1
cations of domestic investors and second, market segmentation. With respect
to these two factors, we will henceforth refer to ’domestic-currency bias’ and
’domestic-time bias’. The domestic-currency bias means that traders located
in one specific country tend to hold assets denominated in the reference cur-
rency of that country. Their portfolios typically include domestic assets and,
therefore, the domestic currency prevails over foreign currencies. This idea par-
allels the international home-bias literature (see Lewis (1999) for a survey). The
domestic-time bias refers to the actual time when trading is done. Evidence on
the imperfect integration of foreign exchange markets is provided by Hsieh and
Kleidon (1996). As in the case of the proximity bias for equity markets (e.g.
Massa and Simonov (2006)), we argue that investors have a tendency to trade
mainly in their country’s working hours. For instance, US investors, brokers and
dealers will tend to exchange US dollars against euros during the main US hours
of work. Conversely, the execution of euro-dollar spot exchanges initiated by Eu-
ropean investors is clustered within the main working hours of central Europe.
In a trading environment with an imperfectly elastic supply, the combination of
these two factors gives rise to a cyclical pattern: the home currency depreciates
during domestic working hours and appreciates during foreign working hours.
In aggregate, the geographic segmentation, coupled with the domestic-currency
bias, creates sell-price (buy-price) pressure during domestic (counterpart) work-
ing hours.
   In order to obtain empirical support for these arguments, we use two methods
to examine currency movements. First, we perform a time-series analysis of
intraday currency returns to examine linkages across time and world regions.
The prevalence of reversal rather than persistent patterns in currency returns
suggests that the inventory hypothesis is more plausible. Second, a natural
experiment is to test what happens when one of the two counterpart countries
or regions is on holiday. If the foreign country is on holiday while people in
the home country are working, it seems likely that during domestic working
hours the domestic sell-pressure on the domestic currency will be exacerbated
by the diminished buy-pressure from foreign investors. On the other hand,
during foreign working hours, foreign investors will be relatively inactive and
will not exert the usual buy-pressure on the domestic currency. This will result
in stronger depreciation of the home currency during domestic working hours
and weaker appreciation during foreign working hours. Our empirical findings
largely support this supposition.
   Surprisingly, the literature to date has almost nothing to say about the
intraday patterns of exchange rate returns. Most of the attention in previous



                                        2
studies has been devoted to intraday volatility or bid-ask spreads, rather than
returns. The Olsen & Associates study was a real pioneer in collecting and
analysing high-frequency data (e.g. Dacorogna et al. (1993), Olsen et al. (1997),
and Müller et al. (1990)). However, its focus was on return volatility, bid-
ask spread size and intensity of market activity, especially for foreign exchange
markets. This is also the case for many other studies that have made significant
contributions to the literature (Andersen and Bollerslev (1997, 1998), Baillie and
Bollerslev (1990), Bollerslev and Domowitz (1993), Hsieh and Kleidon (1996),
and Ito and Hashimoto (2005), just to mention a few). Ito (1987) and Ito and
Roley (1987, 1991) represent an exception. However, they use only five points of
time to analyse the intraday return behaviour of yen-dollar exchange rate from
1980 to 1986. Our study adds to this literature by examining in finer detail the
cross-sectional and time-series characteristics of intraday returns across diﬀerent
time zones, working time periods and calendar events.
    This paper is structured as follows. Section 1 provides statistical evidence on
time-of-day market patterns. Section 2 covers their economic significance. Sec-
tion 3 presents a simple microstructure framework for studying the main drivers
of this phenomenon. Section 4 presents some empirical findings supporting our
hypotheses. Section 5 concludes the paper.


2     Time-of-day patterns
2.1    Data
The database has been kindly provided by Swiss-Systematic Asset Manage-
ment SA, Zurich. It includes spot exchange rates for the following currency
pairs: CHF/USD, DEM/USD, EUR/USD, JPY/EUR and JPY/USD. The sam-
ple periods cover the period from the beginning of January 1993 to the end of
August 2005 for the CHF/USD and JPY/USD exchange rates, and from Jan-
uary 1999 to August 2005 for EUR/USD and JPY/EUR. Data for DEM/USD
cover the period from January 1993 to December 1998. The introduction of
the euro dictates the time periods for the euro and the German mark. We use
the tick-by-tick FXFX Reuters midquote price (the average price between the
representative ask and bid quotes). The characteristics of these data have been
discussed at length in previous studies (among others, Müller et al. (1990), Da-
corogna et al. (1993) and Goodhart, Ito and Payne (1996)). Although indicative
quotes have their shortcomings, a comparison of the electronic foreign exchange
trading system, Reuters 2000-2, with FXFX Reuters shows that "FXFX indica-
tive quotes can be taken as a very good and close proxy for that in the Reuters


                                         3
2000-2" (Goodhart, Ito and Payne (1996), page 126).3
    The dataset contains millions of representative quotes. To conduct this
study, we carefully organised our database as follows: first, we accounted for
changes in daylight savings times, expressing time in terms of Greenwich Mean
Time (GMT). Second, we organised our database in 5-minute intervals. For each
interval, we identified the first, last, high and low exchange rates. If no trades
occurred in a given 5-minute interval, we copied down the last trading price in
the previous time interval. Finally, since our database included weekends, we
excluded weekend hours according to the definitions reported in Table 1. The
definition of weekend hours matches the beginning and end of working hours in
the diﬀerent time zones. Thus, for each currency pair, the working week begins
at 6 a.m. in the earliest time zone and ends at 6 p.m. in the latest time zone,
expressed in terms of Greenwich Mean Time. For instance, for JPY/USD, the
working week begins when it is 6 a.m. on Monday in Tokyo (corresponding to
9 p.m. on Sunday, GMT) and ends at 6 p.m. on Friday in New York local time
(11 p.m. on Friday, GMT). It is worth stressing that the inclusion of weekends
leaves the main results unchanged. But it has the disadvantage of blurring some
of the intraday eﬀects.
    For the sake of presentation, we investigate exchange rate movements over
4-hour periods. These time brackets allow us to observe overlapping and non-
overlapping intraday periods in the diﬀerent working hours of each world region.
In particular, trading hours from midnight to 4 a.m., from 8 a.m. to midday
and from 4 — 8 p.m. GMT mirror the main trading activity in Japan, Europe
and the US, respectively. A 4-hour time interval is also a reasonable length of
time for marketable intraday trading. In principle, one could question whether
shorter timeframes than four hours provide a finer identification of short-lived
patterns. But it turns out that shorter timeframes deliver a nosier picture of
the same phenomenon. The descriptive analysis over one-hour time intervals is
available upon request.


2.2     Statistical significance
Figure 1 presents time-of-day return patterns in graphical form. Each graph
shows 24 cross-sectional averages of annualised returns over four hours. Using
two-sample t-tests, these graphs also show if the acceptance of the null hypoth-
   3 Martens and Kofman (1998) show that futures on DM/$ tend to lead the "quoted" spot

market for up to 3 minutes. This lead-lag relation does not constitute critical evidence for
our study. Lyons (1995) stresses three limitations related to "indicative" quotes: they are
not tradable; they are representative only for the interbank market; during very fast markets,
"indicative" quotes may be updated with a short delay.



                                              4
esis of equality in means falls below the p-value of 5% or 1%. In figure 1, black
(grey) bars mean that an average return over a specific 4-hour time period is
diﬀerent at a 1% (5%) significance level.4 These figures clearly show that all
currencies tend to depreciate during the working hours of their reference coun-
tries and to appreciate during the working hours of their counterpart countries.
More specifically, these figures show:

- CHF/USD: the US dollar appreciates significantly from 5:00 to 13:00 GMT
       and the Swiss franc appreciates significantly from midday to 17:00 and
       then again from 17:00 to 23:00 GMT.

- DEM/USD: similar to CHF/USD, the US dollar appreciates significantly from
       5:00 to 13:00 GMT and the German mark appreciates significantly from
       midday to 17:00 GMT.

- EUR/USD: the US dollar appreciates significantly from 8:00 to 12:00 GMT
       and the euro appreciates significantly from 16:00 to 22:00 GMT.

- JPY/EUR: the euro appreciates significantly from 1:00 to 6:00 GMT and the
       yen appreciates significantly from 8:00 to 15:00 GMT.

- JPY/USD: the US dollar appreciates significantly during the night (from 22:00
       to 4:00 GMT) and the yen appreciates significantly from 12:00 to 16:00
       GMT.

    The trading influence from world regions other than the two counterparties
is weaker, but still visible. In particular, trading in Japanese trading hours
appears to support the US dollar against the euro (see figure 1C, during the
night from 21:00 to 2:00 GMT), US trading supports the euro against the yen
(figure 1D, 14:00-22:00 GMT) and during European hours the dollar depreciates
against the yen (figure 1E, 5:00-11:00 GMT).
    The dollar depreciation (appreciation) against the yen during US (Japanese)
business hours is the weakest pattern we have found (although it is still signif-
icant). Our results apparently contrast with those obtained by Ito and Roley
(1987), who found opposing patterns from 1980 to 1986. There are several ex-
planations for this apparent anomaly. First, Ito and Roley use a more rigid and
rough definition of intraday periods. Having only five data points in time, they
define — for instance — the opening time for the US market as 9 a.m. Eastern
   4 These t-statistics refer to two-tail statistics on the diﬀerence between a given 4-hour return

mean over all the other 4-hour returns. Note that we perform the two-sample equal variance
(homoscedastic) test. This represents a more severe test than the heteroscedastic hypothesis.
In fact, the probability associated with a Student’s t-test for equality in means has an upward
bias and leads to a more likely rejection of the inequality hypothesis.


                                                5
Time, despite the fact that at that time the derivatives markets in Chicago are
already open, and after the announcement of major pre-scheduled news bulletins
such as those on GDP, the unemployment rate and the balance of trade. Sec-
ond, as pointed out by Ito and Roley (1987), the yen-dollar exchange rates from
1980 to 1986 are characterised by the "over-valued" dollar policy and strong
temporary trends. Froot (1991) also shows that Japanese outflows of foreign di-
rect investment increased dramatically in the eighties, and half of the Japanese
capital outflow was directed towards US.
    Table 2 shows more detailed descriptive statistics. Here, six non-overlapping
4-hour time intervals represent the entire trading day. Means, medians and stan-
dard deviations are reported on an annualised basis5 to ease reading. Tests for
inequality in means and medians (Wilcoxon/Mann-Whitney test) corroborate
the previous results. In line with the previous literature, intraday heteroskedas-
ticity is clearly observable (F-tests show statistical significance). The max and
min and the statistics on the third and fourth moments suggest that distribu-
tions are reasonably centred, acceptably well-shaped with respect to a Gaussian
distribution and moderately aﬀected by outliers.6 It is also interesting to note
that 4-hour returns outside the main working hours are not serially correlated
across consecutive days.7 For instance, for CHF/USD there is an autoregressive
pattern during Swiss and US working hours only. This is another indication
that clock-time influences trading-time.
    There are some institutional aspects that can represent a preliminary ex-
planation for the time-of-day patters. First, it is worth noting that there is a
specific point in time that can be considered to be the end of the trading day
on spot foreign exchange markets. This is 21:00 GMT, the time when the New
York market closes. An open spot position after 21:00 GMT implies the pay-
ment of an interest rate diﬀerential between the long currency and the short
currency over the next working day. Our results show that this point in time
has no particular eﬀect on intraday returns. Only in the case of euro-dollar ex-
change rates we do observe significant movement. Second, as discussed by Lyons
   5 To annualise, 4-hour returns are multiplied by 260.
   6 We checked the correspondence between our intraday outliers, using Datastream daily

data. There is consistent matching. In particular, the max and min 4-hour returns for
JPY/USD are concentrated around 8 October 1998. On that day, this exchange rate expe-
rienced marked fluctuations. The dollar depreciated strongly around 10:00-12:00 GMT and
recovered around 15:00-18:00 GMT. Datastream data indicate that the daily (log) changes
on 7 and 9 October 1998 amounted to -7.7% and -2.3%, respectively. (The original source of
these data is the Global Treasury Information Services, which fix the closing quote at 13:00
GMT).
   7 See "Q-stat 1" in table 2, showing the Q-statistic for testing the null hypothesis that

there is no autocorrelation at lag 1, i.e. serial correlation between one day’s intraday return
occurring in a given 4-hour period and the previous day’s intraday return occurring at the
same time of the day.



                                              6
(1995), many banks impose overnight limits on their dealers’ positions. More-
over, most dealers close their day with a zero net position and then they restore
their inventory in the early morning of the trading day to face the oncoming
liquidity demand (Lyons (1998)). Thus, intraday and overnight trading limits
may determine time-of-day patterns. Finally, the common practice in foreign
exchange markets is to hedge only partially the aggregate dealer’s position. On
the other hand, dealers tend to adjust unbalanced inventory levels on a single
currency pair over (short) intraday periods. Lyons (1995) shows that FX dealers
prefer to reduce inventory over given thresholds via outgoing orders or brokered
trades. This practice implies a transmission mechanism of transient inventory
imbalances among dealers. Overall, this reasoning provides us a prima facie
explanation for temporary trends in exchange rates due to inventory problems.


2.3    Calendar eﬀects
We examine how intraday returns are distributed across time and whether our
results may be aﬀected by particular calendar eﬀects. In particular, we check
whether these intraday seasonalities cluster at given points of time. There is
no specific month in the year responsible for this phenomenon (not displayed).
Hence, the year-change or January eﬀect that characterises equity markets does
not appear to hold for currencies. Figure 2 shows that the time-of-day anomaly
is evenly distributed across the years. By taking the US investor (European
investor for JPY/EUR) point of view, figure 2A plots domestic currency appre-
ciation during foreign working hours, year by year, from 1993 to 2005. Figure
2B shows domestic currency depreciation during domestic working hours. Only
in a very few cases do we observe exceptions to the general pattern; in partic-
ular, the US dollar appreciated noticeably against the Swiss franc during US
working hours in 1999 and 2005. However, it is evident that the time-of-day
phenomenon persists over years.
   Table 3 reports how the time-of-day patterns are spread across weekdays.
For simplicity, we annualise returns. Some interesting results emerge. As far as
the US dollar is concerned, the time-of-day anomaly exerts the strongest eﬀect
during US working time on Thursdays. In general, the US dollar depreciates
5%—7% against European currencies during US working hours, and 4% against
the yen. On Thursdays, the dollar experiences an additional depreciation of 2%—
4%. European currencies, including the Swiss currency, appear more aﬀected by
trading activity on Mondays and Wednesdays. Indeed, the euro, German mark
and Swiss franc have a tendency to loose 3% or more than the usual morning
depreciation on Mondays (8:00-12:00 GMT). The additional appreciation of the


                                       7
euro during this intraday period increases from 7.8% to 15.7% against the yen.
In turn, the yen seems to be more exposed to an end-of-the-week eﬀect. On Fri-
day morning (local time), the yen looses 13.6% on average against the dollar and
10.5% on average against the euro, as compared to the normal 2.7% and 2.9%,
respectively. There are two main arguments that could help to explain these de-
terministic patterns. On the one hand, the non-trading hours over the weekend
may strengthen time-of-day eﬀects on Mondays and Fridays. The weekend ef-
fect on equity markets has been extensively documented (e.g. French (1980)). A
similar eﬀect may exist on currency markets. On the other hand, the literature
shows that major public information announcements, such as macroeconomic
news, have a significant eﬀect on foreign exchange rates (cf. among others, An-
dersen et al. (2003), Andersen and Bollerslev (1998), Bauwens, Ben Omrane and
Giot (2005), Ederington and Lee (1993), Evans and Lyons (2005)). Since these
news announcements are pre-scheduled and released recurrently on the same
day of the week, the day-of-the-week eﬀect discussed above may be related to
information releases. Finally, an additional issue that may influence intraday
price movements is the occurrence of central bank interventions. However, these
are typically conducted on an irregular and occasional basis. Moreover, the lit-
erature shows that intervention operations are controversial policy options and
may lead to mixed results (e.g. Dominguez (1998)). So, it is hard to believe
that deterministic patterns such those in table 3 can be explained by irregular
events such as central bank interventions.


3    Economic significance
While this time-of-day phenomenon appears highly significant in statistical
terms, a further natural question would be whether it is also significant in eco-
nomic terms. We attempt to answer this question by applying some simple
trading rules. Five main rules are investigated. Their performance is sum-
marised in Table 4. The first (second) rule consists in taking a long (short)
position each working day for four of the foreign (domestic) working hours. The
long position on US dollars is from 8:00 to noon if the counterpart currency
is the Swiss franc, German mark or euro, and from midnight to 4:00 as far as
the yen is concerned. The short position on the dollar spans the hours from
midday to 16:00 if the counterpart currency is the Swiss franc, German mark or
Japanese yen, and from 16:00 to 20:00 for the euro. The short positon on euro
against yen occurs from 8:00 to noon. The third strategy combines the first two
rules, i.e. a long-short strategy each day. Since we have observed some day-of-


                                       8
the-week eﬀects, the fourth and fifth strategies focus only on one specific trading
day in the week. The fourth trading rule implements a short-long strategy on
Mondays only. This should have a particularly positive eﬀect on performance
during European working times. The final trading rule executes a short-long
strategy with respect to the Japanese yen on Thursdays or Fridays only. These
specific days are consistent with the day-of-the-week eﬀects reported in Table
3. Taking annualised values, performance is evaluated in terms of mean return,
standard deviation and Sharpe ratio. We also implement a simple time-series
analysis by estimating the market model as follows:


                                  rtS = α + βrtD + t                                      (1)

   The dependent variable rtS is the intraday return on day t resulting from
the strategy S that could be one of the five trading rules explained above. The
return on the benchmark asset rtD is represented by the daily (log) change on
the currency pair. The day is defined as lasting from 0:00 to 24:00 GMT. Other
definitions provide essentially the same results. The market model estimation
gives the size of alpha (annualised) and beta that can be interpreted in the tra-
ditional sense, namely the risk-adjusted Jensen measure and the beta coeﬃcient
as a measure of systematic risk.
   It is worth emphasising that the implementation of these rules does not aim
at maximising profitability. In fact, to be consistent with the rest of the paper,
these rules are applied to the six four-hour periods mentioned above and not
to the intraday periods aﬀording the maximum average returns. For instance,
the long position on Japanese yen taken by a European investor trading on
JPY/EUR has been set for the midnight—4:00 time intervals (GMT) that provide
a return of only 2.8%. This position would earn 7.6% if carried out from 17:00—
22:00. Furthermore, more sophisticated operations such as the use of leverage
or (intraday) timing are simply ignored.8
   Table 4 shows that even the minimal long and short rules provide signif-
icant results in economic terms. The combined long and short strategy in-
creases performance twofold. Long-short strategy performance ranges from 6.7%
(JPY/USD) to 16.7% (EUR/USD). These numbers translate into 0.96 and 2.41
in terms of Sharpe ratios. The implementation of day-of-the-week strategies
magnifies these yields further. The long-short strategy on Mondays and Thurs-
days attains almost 20% of annual returns, with a Sharpe ratio of more than
3.5.
   The market model estimation for equation (1) yields the following results.
  8 For a theoretical underpinning to optimise the trading timing, see Shirayev (1978).




                                             9
First, alphas are exactly in line with the mean returns reported above. Sec-
ond, beta estimates suggest a fairly low exposure to systematic risk. Betas (in
absolute values) for long and short trading rules (taken separately) are around
0.2—0.3. These values decrease when long and short strategies are combined.
Betas for weekday strategies are slightly higher than the pure long-short rule
which essentially involves a negligible systematic risk and a solely positive alpha.
    The consideration of transaction costs significantly worsens some of the strat-
egy performances above. We calculate the break-even cost for each currency
strategy. This means that we estimate the implicit maximum cost necessary to
avoid incurring losses. To do this, we charge the largest quoted bid-ask spreads9
or the round-trip cost, each time a long or short strategy is adopted, and twice
the round-trip cost for the long-short strategies. The first three trading rules
involve a great deal of trading because they imply that a transaction is car-
ried out each working day. For this reason revenues are significantly reduced
by transaction costs in these cases. However, it appears that the EUR/USD
pair, at least, provides lucrative speculation, even after adjusting for transac-
tion costs. In these cases, time-of-day currency strategies can bear transaction
costs as high as 4 pips10 before moving into a negative range. This magnitude
of spread is large when compared with the typical interdealer bid-ask spreads
documented in the previous literature.11
    To complement this analysis, Table 4 also shows the average representative
bid-ask spreads encountered in our data. We took into consideration the average
bid-ask spread size surrounding the beginning and end time of the intraday hold-
ing periods (e.g. nearby 8 a.m. and noon for the 8:00-12:00 long strategy). It is
worth noting that average spreads from the Reuters representative quotes are
larger than interdealer spreads and tend to overestimate transaction costs. Ta-
ble 4 shows that the payoﬀ increases significantly if we consider day-of-the-week
strategies. In fact, these strategies are much less costly and more remunerative.
In most cases, break-even costs are between 10 and 19 pips. These numbers
appear highly profitable even when compared with the representative bid-ask
spreads.
    9 It is worth noting that intraday cost-of-carry is virtually zero in spot currency markets.

Provided with cash holdings to invest, a spot trading position opened after 21:00 GMT of the
previous day and closed before 21:00 GMT of the current day pays no interest rates.
  1 0 One pip for currency pairs involving the Japanese yen corresponds to 0.01. One pip is the

fourth decimal for the other currencies, i.e. 0.0001.
  1 1 Here, we mention only few studies reporting indications about the spread size. Ito and

Hashimoto (2005) report an average spread size between 0.015 and 0.025 for JPY/USD and
0.0001 and 0.0002 for EUR/USD in the EBS system during 1999-2001. According to Lyons
(2001), the median spread for DEM/USD was already low in 1992, i.e. around 3 pips. Good-
hart et al. (2002) find that the average spread in both DEM/USD and USD/EUR was between
2 and 3 pips using data from 1997 to 1999.



                                              10
4     A theoretical framework
In this section, we present a simple theoretical framework designed to identify
the main aspects that may influence trader behaviour and ultimately deter-
mine the time-of-day patterns. We closely follow the Biais, Glosten and Spatt
(2005) model, since this has the advantage of covering the main character-
istics of traders’ decisions in a unified theoretical framework. These include
non-competitive pricing, order-handling, inventory and adverse selection costs.
Although there is a new strand of literature in which the microstructure of
foreign exchange markets is modelled — including advanced representations of
the currency market microstructure (e.g. Evens and Lyons (2002a, 2002b) and
Lyons (2001)) — these models typically focus on the dealer’s behaviour while,
in our setting, the distinction between liquidity supplier and demander as well
as the final investor play an essential role. Here, risk-aversion, inventory risks
and adverse selection characterise the decisions of both the (rational) liquidity
provider and demander.
    The model is explained in greater detail in the appendix. We consider a spot
exchange rate for a currency pair to be a risky asset. The market is populated by
N competitive liquidity suppliers and a representative liquidity demander. Both
liquidity suppliers and demanders are assumed to have a Constant Absolute
Risk Aversion (CARA) utility function and an initial currency endowment. The
liquidity demander initiating the trade is the most active part, often called the
initiator or aggressor. He can have liquidity or informational reasons to trade.
In the former case, the primary source of currency demand is a final investor
or customer.12      The sequence is as follows: a customer contacted his bank
that acts as market maker; a dealer in the bank then turns to the interbank
market to cover the customer trade. In this circumstance, the dealer mimics
the customer behaviour. In the latter case, the dealer has informational motives
to trade. Lyons (1995) calls for a boarder view of private information in the
forex market.13 In particular, dealer’s conjectures on aggregate inventories or
on other dealers’ expectations may motivate trading for reasons apart from
portfolio re-allocation or liquidity needs. In both cases, the aggressor represents
the liquidity demander and the nonaggressor is the liquidity supplier.14
  1 2 These can be very diverse, e.g., central banks, governments, importers and exporters of

goods, financial institutions, hedge funds and so on.
  1 3 See, also, Cao, Evans and Lyons (2006) for a discussion on the nature of (a)symmetric

information in FX markets.
  1 4 If the two parts are both dealers ("direct trading"), the nonaggressor dealer may choose

to provide liquidity as a market maker and give quotes on the aggressor dealer’s request (so
called "incoming trade"), or he may trade on other dealers’ quotes ("outgoing trade"). Since
the interbank market is a hybrid market, dealers can interact with brokers ("indirect trading")
by giving quotes to them (via limit orders) or by trading at brokers’ quotes (market orders).


                                              11
    In our setting, the initial endowment in an investor’s currency plays a pivotal
role. It identifies the domestic-home bias. To model this, we extend the Biais-
Glosten-Spatt model by assuming that the representative investor comes from
a bivariate mixture of two groups, the domestic and foreign participant groups,
with a normal distribution. Since each group favours its reference currency, the
former (latter) representative agent will, on average, be positively (negatively)
endowed with domestic currency.
    To see how the initial endowment determines the price formation process, let
us assume that there are three representative phases in trading activity. In one
phase, domestic and foreign traders are essentially equally represented and there
is no market pressure due to the domestic-currency bias. In terms of nonaggres-
sor’s expectations, this means E [ω D LD + ω F LF ] = 0 in the model terminology
described in the appendix. The second phase occurs during domestic working
hours. In aggregate, the prevalence of domestic investors on the market implies
a positive imbalance in domestic currency and, in turn, an excess demand for
foreign counterpart currency. This translates into a positive inventory imbal-
ance for liquidity providers, who will typically react by overbidding ask quotes
for the foreign-to-domestic exchange rates.15 From the dealer’s eyes, this means
E [ω D LD ] > E [ω F LF ]. Finally, the opposite mechanism holds if counterpart
investors prevail in the market.
    The liquidity demander is also endowed with an initial signal on the final
asset value. Thus, the aggressor may also have informational motives to trade.
To trade, an aggressor will place a market order by rationally anticipating the
impact of his trading volume on the price. Once the market order has been
submitted, equilibrium is achieved in a simple uniform-price auction, in which
the liquidity supplier optimally designs his limit order schedule by choosing, for
each possible price, a given quantity to supply. He does so by conjecturing the
information signal and the risk-sharing needs from the submitted market order.
    This simple model points to two main causes for the time-of-day patterns:
first, liquidity demand and supply; second, information asymmetry. The first
argument hinges on the intraday seasonalities of excess demand for or supply
of currencies. Ceteris paribus, the investor with a positive initial endowment in
domestic currency (positive L) is more willing to buy foreign currency. Since do-
mestic traders assemble their orders during domestic working time (ω D >ω F ),
liquidity providers face an aggregate positive inventory imbalance in the do-
mestic currency during domestic working hours (larger I ). Overall, this market
  1 5 More precisely, the dealer will react by overbidding quotes in case of "direct" quantity

quotation (home currency as price currency) and by undercutting quotes in case of "indirect"
quotation (home currency as unit currency).



                                             12
force translates into selling pressure on the domestic currency (negative trad-
ing volume Q), a higher price impact (λ) and a decreasing price. At the same
time, a higher volatility or dispersion in the initial endowment of the aggressors
(variance of L) tends to decrease the price impact and augments trading volume.
    Information asymmetry represents a second possible explanation. A stronger
private signal with respect to the domestic currency value, s, translates into a
higher demand (larger Q) and currency appreciation (higher P ). On the other
hand, the larger the number of liquidity traders participating in the market
(N ), the lower the market impact, the higher the trading volume and the lower
the price impact. In contrast, a rise in the liquidity trader’s risk aversion (κ)
strengthens the price impact. Finally, higher variance in the private signal
(true asset value) increases (decreases) the noise signal (δ) and price impact,
and decreases (increases) trading volume.
   Thus, we have two conflicting explanations: inventory and information asym-
metry eﬀects. These two explanations entail two opposite empirical implica-
tions, both of which can be tested.16 First, significantly positive cross-sectional
depreciation (appreciation) of the domestic currency during domestic (foreign)
working hours would point more strongly to an intraday seasonally-based excess
demand for or supply of foreign currency. Consequently, the marked patterns
described above and shown in figure 1A-E would tend to support the inventory
hypothesis rather than the asymmetric information approach. In fact, it is im-
plausible that domestic traders should systematically enjoy superior information
on a negative (positive) signal during domestic (foreign) trading hours. In this
respect, the asymmetric information hypothesis would imply insignificant cross-
sectional intraday return averages. Hsieh and Kleidon (1996) arrive at the same
result by analysing volatility periodicities on foreign exchange markets. They
conclude that these recurrent patterns are not due to the incorporation of pri-
vate information, as envisioned by standard asymmetric information models, but
rather to inventory-bearing risk inherent in the market-making mechanism.17
    Second, information asymmetry implies permanent price adjustment, whereas
the price impact due to inventory problems is typically reversed. In fact, the
price impact attributable to inventory aspects is temporary since it is not driven
by valuable information about true asset value. If asymmetric information were
 1 6 Lyons (1995) tests the inventory and information asymmetry hypotheses using diﬀerent

methods and data. He uses transaction data of one dealer and one broker in the U.S. market
for five days during August 1992.
  1 7 Likewise, Breedon and Vitale (2005) find that the relationship between exchange rates

and forex order flow is mostly due to liquidity eﬀects rather than any information contained
in order flow. Further empirical evidence on the relevance of inventory eﬀects in currency
markets may be found in Bessembinder (1994), Cao, Evans and Lyons (2006), Flood (1994),
Lyons (1995, 1998).



                                            13
the sole motivation to trade, a sale at the bid would cause a permanent price fall
to reflect private information conveyed by that sale. If inventory costs were the
only dealer’s concern, after a sale at the bid, bid and ask quotes would fall, not to
reflect information as in the asymmetric information paradigm, but to discour-
age additional sales. Over time, however, quotes would return to normal. The
same logic holds in case of a purchase. Consequently, reversal (continuation) in
intraday price changes revealed by the time-series analysis would tend to sup-
port the inventory (asymmetric information) interpretation.18 The time-series
analysis is presented below.


5     Empirical findings
Some trading aspects coming from the above theoretical framework are barely
observable and testable, in particular the informed trader’s private signal, true
asset value volatility, risk aversion, number of liquidity suppliers, noise-to-signal
ratio and so on. Consistently, our analysis focuses only on the main explanations
that can be tested empirically, i.e. the inventory and asymmetric information
eﬀects.


5.1       Time series analysis
To contrast further the inventory and information asymmetry hypotheses, we
conduct a time-series analysis by means of a Seemingly Unrelated Regression
(SUR) model relating intraday price dynamics as follows:


                                   Yt = a + bXt−1 + et                                      (2)

    Where Yt is a 6x1 vector 4-hour consecutive return that, taken together,
represents the log price over the previous 24 hours, specifically:

                        £                                                     ¤
                    Yt = rt20−24 , rt16−20 , rt12−16 , rt8−12 , rt4−8 , rt0−4               (3)

    where, for instance, rt20−24 designates the return from midday to 4:00 GMT
on day t. a and b are 6x1 and 6x6 matrices of parameters. Xt−1 is a 6x6 matrix
containing the previous six 4-hour consecutive returns, as follows:
  1 8 This does not mean that return continuation is a necessary condition for observing trading

motivated by specific information. In principle, it is possible that an investor with superior
information will trade only once and that this will have a permanent impact. However, there
are circumstances in which non-public information is processed into price more gradually, e.g.
order splitting strategies, front-running trading, information leakages, news bulletins implying
time-consuming analysis and so on.




                                                14
                    ⎡                                                                ⎤
                        rt16−20   rt12−16   rt8−12      rt4−8     rt0−4      20−24
                                                                            rt−1
                ⎢ 12−16                                                      16−20 ⎥
                ⎢ rt              rt8−12     rt4−8      rt0−4     20−24
                                                                 rt−1       rt−1   ⎥
                ⎢                                                                  ⎥
                ⎢ r8−12                                                      12−16 ⎥
                ⎢                  rt4−8     rt0−4     20−24
                                                      rt−1        16−20
                                                                 rt−1       rt−1 ⎥
         Xt−1 = ⎢ t4−8                                                             ⎥
                                                                              8−12 ⎥
                                                                                             (4)
                ⎢ rt               rt0−4     20−24
                                            rt−1       16−20
                                                      rt−1        12−16
                                                                 rt−1       rt−1
                ⎢                                                                  ⎥
                ⎢ 0−4              20−24     16−20     12−16       8−12        4−8 ⎥
                ⎣ rt              rt−1      rt−1      rt−1        rt−1       rt−1  ⎦
                         20−24     16−20     12−16      8−12       4−8         0−4
                        rt−1      rt−1      rt−1       rt−1       rt−1       rt−1

    As we have seen above, autocorrelation in intraday returns does not last more
than one day and only few 4-hour return periods are significantly related to price
movements for the same intraday period of the previous day. Hence, the time-
series specification above allows us to assess continuation or reversal patterns
through the intraday price discovery process, over an exhaustive period of time.
However, this empirical test warrants some important caveats. In particular, it
cannot capture inventory and asymmetric information eﬀects over time periods
shorter than four hours.
    Three main patterns are discernable in Table 5. First, reversal patterns are
visible over two time granularities: four hours before and one day before, for the
same intraday time period. This suggests that inventory eﬀects typically result
in price setbacks over two consecutive intraday periods and during the same in-
traday period of the following day.19 Second, return persistence is less pervasive
than price reversal but still observable. In particular, there is a significant pos-
itive autocorrelation between the two 4-hour periods constituting US working
hours, i.e. 12:00—16:00 and 16:00—20:00 GMT. This continuation eﬀect can be
interpreted as a sign of an ongoing process of price adjustments or information
asymmetry.20 Finally, there are intraday periods which are more influential
than others. In particular, what happens in the European morning (8:00—12:00
GMT) appears to be inversely related to late trading (20:00—24:00 GMT) in
all currencies pairs apart from euro/dollar exchange rates. On the other hand,
yen/dollar movements during Japanese hours (typically midnight to 4:00 GMT)
are precursors of US trading activity (16:00—20:00 GMT). Also for the yen/dollar
currency pair, price changes during US working hours (12:00—20:00 GMT) tend
to be positively lagged during the European morning (8:00—12:00 GMT). These
  1 9 In his experimental design, Flood (1994) highlights the fact that, through the "hot-potato"

mechanism, inventory imbalances can give rise to foreign market ineﬃciency. BIS (2005)
shows that the "hot-patato" trade accounts for more than 50% of daily volume in 2004. Sarno
and Taylor (2001) stress that the decentralised nature of forex markets reduces currency
market eﬃciency, especially in terms of price information, arbitrage opportunities, and order
execution.
  2 0 Empirical evidence on adverse selection problems in foreign exchange markets may be

found, inter alia, in Bjørnnes and Rime (2005), Marsh and O’Rourke (2005), Mende, Menkhoﬀ
and Osler (2006) and Payne (2003).



                                               15
lagged price adjustments can be partially explained by the lengthy time needed
to absorb news (e.g. Evans and Lyons (2005)), the partial geographical integra-
tion of foreign exchange markets (e.g. Evans and Lyons (2002b) and Menkhoﬀ
and Schmeling (2006)) and the "meteor shower" hypothesis21 (Engle, Ito and
Lin (1990)).


5.2     Holiday eﬀects
Many aspects of trading behaviour are diﬃcult to observe directly, in particular
inventory holdings and information sets. Thus, the test for the determinants of
the exchange rate formation process has to be conducted indirectly. We attempt
this by comparing regular trading with the special market conditions that pre-
vail when one of the two counterparts’ activity is at a low level. The natural way
to test this is to see what happens when one of the two counterpart countries
or regions is on holiday.22 The list of holidays is included in Table 1. These
data were kindly provided by the Swiss Banking Association, which keeps track
of the oﬃcial holidays for each country on an annual basis. We consider the
case of non-overlapping national23 holidays, i.e. when there is a bank holiday
in the foreign country while people in the home country are working as usual.
For the European Union, we consider German holidays. We have tested other
definitions of European holidays and the main results remain essentially un-
changed.24 The lowest number of non-overlapping days is 36 (euro-dollar) and
the highest is 100 (yen-dollar). This should represent a trading environment
in which the market is relatively more (less) populated by domestic (foreign)
traders. Using the terminology set out above, we might expect a predominance
of market participants who are positively endowed with the domestic currency
(L) and a higher proportion of domestic agents (ω D ) together with a lower dis-
persion or heterogeneity of their endowment (variance of L). In turn, this market
condition should strengthen liquidity traders’ inventory risk. If this holds, we
would observe stronger (weaker) domestic (foreign) pressure to sell (pressure to
   2 1 By meteorological analogy, Engle, Ito and Lin (1990) refer to a meteor shower for a

situation in which volatility spreads across regions in chronological order ("it rains down on
the earth as it turns") whereas the term heat wave refers to volatility transmission specific
to one locality ("a hot day in New York is likely to be followed by another hot day in New
York").
   2 2 Bessembinder (1994) analyses patterns in exchange rate volatility, trading volume and

spreads before holidays. He finds that spreads do not increase by a significant margin before
any single-country holiday but only before holidays in multiple financial centres.
   2 3 We also tested the inclusion of holidays in some regions of a country, e.g. Corpus Christi

in Germany. The results remain essentially unchanged. Therefore we decided to consider only
national holidays.
   2 4 We analysed several combinations by including or excluding from German holidays oﬃcial

bank holidays in Belgium, France, Holland, Italy and Spain.




                                               16
buy) during domestic working hours. This imbalance would ultimately result in
stronger depreciation of the home currency during domestic working hours and
weaker appreciation during foreign working hours.
    Table 6 reports the average and standard deviation of intraday returns on
domestic and foreign holidays. These statistics are accompanied by tests for
inequality in means (t-tests) and variances (F-tests). The empirical findings
provide a remarkable amount of support for our hypotheses. For instance, let
us consider the CHF/USD results. On regular trading days (i.e. no bank holi-
day in Switzerland and in the US) the US dollar appreciates by an average of
7.2% during Swiss working hours. But when there is a holiday in Switzerland,
the sell-pressure exerted by Swiss investors slackens. Buy-pressure in favour of
the Swiss franc during Swiss trading hours is normally marginal; however in this
exceptional case it prevails, and thus the dollar depreciates by 4.6%. The oppo-
site mechanism holds when the US rather than the Swiss market is in holiday.
The sell-pressure against the Swiss franc normally exerted by Swiss investors
during Swiss working hours exacerbates. Thus, the franc loses 19.8% instead of
its usual depreciation of 7.2%. A mirror-image situation applies for US working
hours: Swiss holidays lead to greater depreciation in the dollar. Overall, the
findings on bank holiday eﬀects provide additional support for the inventory
hypothesis and oﬀer further compelling evidence for the economic significance
of the time-of-day phenomenon.


6     Conclusion
This study reveals a puzzling time-of-day pattern which aﬀects foreign exchange
markets. Domestic currencies tend to depreciate during domestic working time
and to appreciate during the working hours of the counterpart country. This
phenomenon is highly significant in statistical and economic terms. Its existence
and persistence over a number of years contradicts the random walk and market
eﬃciency hypothesis. On the one hand, one can try to explain these patterns
by evoking liquidity premia, "Herstatt risk" or settlement issues. On the other
hand, it is hard to explain why traders systematically incur larger transaction
costs instead of taking full advantage of a round-the-clock global and liquid mar-
ket. Furthermore, this anomaly appears to be profitable, even after accounting
for reasonably competitive transaction costs and using elementary trading rules.
    The explanation of these time-of-day trends seems to reside in microstruc-
tural and behavioural aspects of foreign exchange markets. The simple theo-
retical framework used in this study suggests two main explanations: inventory


                                       17
costs and information asymmetry. If we consider the marked regularity and
well-defined price direction of the currency movements, the latter argument is
hardly sustainable. Intraday time-series analysis also provides more support for
the inventory hypothesis, although some asymmetric information eﬀects are also
perceptible. Consequently, we would tend to maintain that the combination
of these two main factors accounts for this intraday pattern. First, domestic
investors’ portfolios are heavily biased towards domestic currencies. Second,
currency markets are characterised by geographical and chronological segmen-
tation. The conduct of domestic trading tends to cluster in domestic working
hours. Thus, supply-pressure (demand-pressure) on the domestic currency dur-
ing domestic (counterpart) working hours is transformed into cyclical inventory
eﬀects.
   The puzzling evidence reported in this study raises significant questions that
could be investigated in future research work. In particular, it would be useful
to conduct a similar study to ours, studying order flow data for foreign exchange
markets. Despite their limited accessibility, these data would enable researchers
to empirically test some theoretical implications that we have left unexplored.




                                       18
7     Appendix: theoretical model
The notation below conforms the original Biais-Glosten-Spatt model (2005) that
we follow closely. The trading mechanism is similar to a call auction in which
the market order Q is placed and then equilibrium achieved in a uniform-price
auction. Consider a spot exchange rate of a currency pair as a risky asset.
Denote its true value and its expected final value as v and π, respectively. v
follows a random walk. Foreign exchange markets are both quote-driven and
order-driven markets. Thus, liquidity suppliers can be dealers or brokers.25 We
consider two types of agents: first, the liquidity demander who is the most active
part in the trade which we hereinafter refer to as the "initiator" or "aggressor";
second, the liquidity provider who is more passive (also called "nonaggressor").
As described below, the former may have informational motives to trade. There
are N competitive liquidity suppliers who want to maximise their expected utlity
function. The maximisation program for liquidity supplier i is:
                               h                     c        i
                        max EU (v − p)qi (p) + Ii v − qi2 (p)                                 (1A)
                        qi (p)                       2

                                                                                   P
                                                                                   N
                                                                                         Ii
    The initial currency endowment of liquidity supplier i is Ii . (I =                  N    will
                                                                                   n=1
be the average inventory position.) 2c qi2 is a quadratic cost function represent-
ing market-making administrative costs. We assume that the liquidity supplier
has a CARA utility function with constant absolute risk aversion index is κ.
Liquidity provider i optimally designs his limit order schedule by choosing, for
each possible price P, the quantity he will oﬀer or demand: qi (p). By assuming
exponential utility functions and normality, his objective function becomes:

                                                κ           2              c
           max (Ii − qi ) E [v | θ] − qi P −      (Ii − qi ) V ar [v | θ] − qi2               (2A)
           qi (p)                               2                          2
    where c is a constant handling cost and θ is the information revealed by the
market order submitted by the aggressor who requires an immediate execution
(θ will be explicitly defined below). By solving the First Order Conditon, we find
that qi = E[v|θ]−p−κV   ar[v|θ]Ii
               κV ar[v|θ]+c       . μi = E [v | θ] − κV ar [v | θ] Ii can be seen as the
marginal valuation for the liquidity supplier i. As market makers, the aggressor
is a risk-averse agent with a CARA utility function and a constant absolute risk
aversion index γ. He is endowed with domestic currency amounting to L. We
assume that the aggressor comes from two groups of agents representing the
domestic and foreign market participants. Let us call the endowment of the
 2 5 A unique utility function for dealers or brokers represents a limit in our approach.




                                             19
domestic and foreign group of investors LD and LF , and ω D and ω F = 1 − ω D
their proportion in the market. We can define L as a random vector and the pair
[LD , LF ] has a bivariate normal distribution. Each group has a bias towards
its domestic currency. Thus, LD > 0 and LF < 0. From the rational liquidity
supplier’s perspective, L mirrors the market pressure. Other things being equal,
for the nonaggressor E [ω D LD + ω F LF ] = l = 0 means a balanced buy-sell
pressure whereas E [L] > 0 means an expected predominance of foreign currency
demanders. This configures the stochastic nature of the investor’s endowment.
The aggressor is also endowed with an initial signal s on the final value v. Thus,
v takes the form of v = π + s + . π is a constant and E [s] = E [ ] = 0, and
σ 2 stands for the variance of . The initiator places a market order to trade Q
shares. His objective function is:

                                                       γ 2
                    max (L + Q) (π + s) − Qp −           σ (L + Q)2              (3A)
                     Q                                 2
   By solving the First Order Condition, we find that Q = π+s−p
                                                           γσ 2 − L. θ = π +
s−γσ 2 L can be seen as the informed trader’s marginal valuation. Once the mar-
ket order is submitted, equilibrium is achieved in a simple uniform-price auction.
The liquidity supplier takes into account the information content of the market
order, namely the signal s and the risk-sharing need, L, of the informed trader.
By virtue of the Projection theorem, we can solve conditional expectations
E [v | θ] = E [v]+ Cov(v,θ)                     Cov(v,θ)          V ar(s)
                   V ar(v) (θ −E [θ]) where δ = V ar(v) = V ar(s)+(γσ 2 )2 V ar(L) . δ
represents the relative weight of the noise to signal and quantifies the magnitude
of the adverse-selection problem. Since E [θ] = π − γσ 2 l, the liquidity supplier’s
conditional expectation is:


                         E [v | θ] = (1 − δ)π + δ(θ − γσ 2 l)                    (4A)
                                     PN
   By setting market clearing as        i=n qi (p) + Q = 0, we find the equilibrium
price to be P = α + βθ where:

                 π − δ(π − γσ 2 l) − κV ar [v | θ] I          δ + c+κV ar[v|θ]
                                                                    Nγσ 2
           α=                                          ,β =                      (5A)
                          1 + c+κV ar[v|θ]
                                Nγσ 2                         1 + c+κV ar[v|θ]
                                                                    N γσ 2

   Note that l aﬀects only the intercept and not the slope of the price function.
Since the equilibrium price is linear in θ, and θ, in turn, is linear in Q and L,
we find that:

                    α     β
             P =       +     γσ 2 Q, P = (α + βπ + βs) − βγσ 2 L                 (6A)
                   1−β   1−β



                                          20
References
 [1] Andersen, T. G., and T. Bollerslev (1997), Intraday Periodicity and Volatil-
    ity Persistence in Financial Markets, Journal of Empirical Finance 4, 115-
    158.

 [2] Andersen, T. G., and T. Bollerslev (1998), Deutsche Mark-Dollar Volatility:
    Intraday Activity Patterns, Macroeconomic Announcements, and Longer
    Run Dependencies, Journal of Finance 53, 219-265.

 [3] Andersen, T. G., T. Bollerslev, F. X. Diebold and C. Vega (2003), Micro
    Eﬀects of Macro Announcements: Real-Time Price Discovery in Foreign
    Exchange, American Economic Review 93, 38-62.

 [4] Baillie, R. T., and T. Bollerslev (1998), Intra-Day and Inter-Market Volatil-
    ity in Foreign Exchange Rates, Review of Economic Studies 58, 565-585.

 [5] Bank for International Settlements (2005), Triennial Central Bank Survey:
    Foreign Exchange and Derivatives Market Activity in 2004, Basle, Bank
    for International Settlements.

 [6] Bauwens, L., W. Ben Omrane and P. Giot (2005), News Announcements,
    Market Activity and Volatility in the Euro-Dollar Foreign Exchange Mar-
    ket, Journal of International Money and Finance 24, 1108-1125.

 [7] Bessembinder, H. (1994), Bid-Ask Spread in the Interbank Foreign Ex-
    change Markets, Journal of Financial Economics 35, 317-348.

 [8] Biais, B, L. Glosten, and C. Spatt (2005), Market Microstructure: a Survey
    of Microfoundations, Empirical Results, and Policy Implications, Journal
    of Financial Markets 8, 217-264.

 [9] Bjørnnes, G. H., and D. Rime (2005), Dealer Behaviour and Trading Sys-
    tems in Foreign Exchange Markets, Journal of Financial Economics 75,
    571-605.

[10] Bollerslev, T., and I. Domowitz (1993), Trading Patterns and Prices in the
    Interbank Foreign Exchange Market, Journal of Finance 48, 1421-1443.

[11] Breedon, F., and P. Vitale (2005), An Empirical Study of Liquidity and
    Information Eﬀects of Order Flow on Exchange Rates, CEPR Working
    Paper.

[12] Cao, H. H., M. D. Evans and R. K. Lyons (2006), Inventory Information,
    Journal of Business 79, 325-363.

                                       21
[13] Dacorogna, M. M., U. A. Müller, R. J. Nagler, R. B. Olsen and O. Pictet
    (1993), A Geographical Model fort he Daily and Weekly Seasonal Volatil-
    ity in the Foreign Exchange Market, Journal of International Money and
    Finance 12, 413-438.

[14] Dominguez, K. M. (1998), Central bank intervention and exchange rate
    volatility, Journal of International Money and Finance 17, 161-190.

[15] Ederington, L. H., and J. H. Lee (1993), How Markets Process Information:
    News Releases and Volatility, Journal of Finance 48, 1161-1191.

[16] Engle, R. F., T. Ito and W. Lin (1990), Meteor Showers or Heat
    Waves? Heteroskedastic Intraday Volatility in the Foreign Exchange Mar-
    ket, Econometrica 58, 525-542..

[17] Evans, M. D. D., and R. K. Lyons (2002a), Order Flow and Exchange Rate
    Determinants, Journal of Political Economy 110, 170-180.

[18] Evans, M. D. D., and R. K. Lyons (2002b), Informational Integration and
    FX Trading, Journal of International Money and Finance 21, 807-831.

[19] Evans, M. D. D., and R. K. Lyons (2005), Do Currency Markets Absorb
    News Quickly?, Journal of International Money and Finance 24, 197-217.

[20] Flood, M. (1994), Market Structure and Ineﬃciency in the Foreign Ex-
    change Market, Journal of International Money and Finance 13, 131-158.

[21] French, K. R. (1980), Stock Returns and the Weekend Eﬀect, Journal of
    Financial Economics 8, 55-69.

[22] Froot, K. A. (1991), Japanese Foreign Direct Investment, NBER Working
    Paper # 3737.

[23] Goodhart, C., T. Ito and R. Payne (1996), One Day in June 1993: A Study
    of the Working of the Reuters 2000-2 Electronic Foreign Exchange Trading
    System, in J.A. Frankel, G. Galli, and A. Giovannini (eds.) The Microstruc-
    ture of Foreign Exchange Markets, Chicago: The University Chicago Press:
    107-179.

[24] Goodhart, C., R. Love, R. Payne and D. Rime (2002), Analysis of Spread
    in the Dollar/Euro and Deutsche-Mark/Dollar Foreign Exchange Markets,
    Economic Policy 17, 536-552.




                                      22
[25] Hsieh, D. A., and A. W. Kleidon (1996), Bid-Ask Spreads in Foreign Ex-
    change Markets: Implication of Asymmetric Information, in J.A. Frankel,
    G. Galli, and A. Giovannini (eds.) The Microstructure of Foreign Exchange
    Markets, Chicago: The University Chicago Press: 41-67.

[26] Ito, T. (1987), The Intra-daily Exchange Rate Dynamics and Monetary
    Policies After the G5 Agreement, Journal of the Japanese and International
    Economics 1, 275-298.

[27] Ito, T., and Y. Hashimoto (2005), Intra-day Seasonality in Activities of the
    Foreign Exchange Markets: Evidence from the Electronic Broking System,
    ISER Working Paper.

[28] Ito, T., and V. V. Roley (1987), News from the U.S. and the Japan which
    Moves the Yen/Dollar Exchange Rate?, Journal of Monetary Economics
    19, 255-278.

[29] Ito, T., and V. V. Roley (1991), Intraday Yen/Dollar Exchange Rate Move-
    ments: News or Noise?, Journal of International Financial Markets, Insti-
    tutions and Money 1, 1-31.

[30] Lewis, K. K. (1999), Trying to Explain Home Bias in Equities and Con-
    sumption, Journal of Economic Literature 37, 571-608.

[31] Lyons, R. K. (1995), Tests of Microstructural Hypotheses in the Foreign
    Exchange Market, Journal of Financial Economics 39, 321-351.

[32] Lyons, R. K. (1998), Profits and Position Controls: a Week of FX Dealing,
    Journal of International Money & Finance 17, 97-115.

[33] Lyons, R. K. (2001), The Microstructure Approach to Exchange Rates,
    MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts.

[34] Marsh, I., and C. O’Rourke (2005), Customer Order Flow and Exchange
    Rate Movements: Is There Really Information Content?, Working Paper.

[35] Martens, M., and P. Kofman, , 1998. The Ineﬃciency of Reuters Foreign
    Exchange Quotes, Journal of Banking and Finance 22, 347-366.

[36] Massa, M., and A. Simonov (2006), Hedging, Familiarity and Portfolio
    Choice, Review of Financial Studies 19, 633-685.

[37] Menkhoﬀ, L., and M. Schmeling (2006), Local Information in Foreign Ex-
    change Markets, Discussion Paper #331 University of Hannover.


                                       23
[38] Müller, U. A., M. M. Dacorogna, R. B. Olsen, O. V. Pictet, M. Schwarz
    and C. Morgenegg (1990), Statistical Study of Foreign Exchange Rates,
    Empirical Evidence of a Price Change Law, and Intraday Analysis, Journal
    of Banking and Finance 14, 1189-1208.

[39] Olsen, R. B., A. U. A. Müller, M. M. Dacorogna, and O. V. Pictet & R.
    R. Davé & D. M. Guillaume (1997), From the bird’s eye to the microscope:
    A survey of new stylised facts of the intra-daily foreign exchange markets,
    Finance & Stochastics 1, 95-129.

[40] Osler, C. L., A. Mende, and L. Menkhoﬀ (2006), Price Discovery in Cur-
    rency Markets, Working Paper, EFA Meetings.

[41] Payne, R. (2003), Informed Trade in Spot Foreign Exchange Markets: an
    Empirical Investigation, Journal of International Economics 61, 307-329.

[42] Sarno, L., and M. P. Taylor (2001), The Microstructure of the Foreign-
    Exchange Market: a Selective Survey of the Literature, Working Paper,
    Princeton Studies in International Economics No. 89.

[43] Shirayev, A. (1978), Optimal Stopping Rules, New York: Springer-Verlag.




                                       24
           Table 1: Weekend definitions and oﬃcial holidays by country.

      Panel A: Weekend definitions.


                         Beginning                                                        End
Ccy             GMT      Local ccy 1   Local ccy 2            GMT       Local ccy 1   Local ccy 2   h excluded
CHFUSD        Mon 5:00   Mon 6:00      Sun 24:00            Fri 23:00    Fri 24:00     Fri 18:00       54
DEMUSD        Mon 5:00   Mon 6:00      Sun 24:00            Fri 23:00    Fri 24:00     Fri 18:00       54
EURUSD        Mon 5:00   Mon 6:00      Sun 24:00            Fri 23:00    Fri 24:00     Fri 18:00       54
JPYEUR       Sun 21:00   Mon 6:00      Sun 22:00            Fri 17:00    Sat 2:00      Fri 18:00       52
JPYUSD       Sun 21:00   Mon 6:00      Sun 16:00            Fri 23:00    Sat 8:00      Fri 18:00       46




      Panel B: Oﬃcial holidays, by country.

Germany                   Japan                           Switzerland                 US
New Year                  New Year                        New Year                    New Year
Good Friday               Bank holiday (2.-3. Jan)        Good Friday                 Martin Luther King Day
Easter Monday             Coming of Age Day               Easter Monday               Presidents' Day
Labour Day                Founding of the Nation          Ascension                   Memorial Day
Ascension                 Vernal equinox Day              Whit Monday                 Independence Day
Whit Monday               Greenery Day                    Confederation Day           Labor Day
Union Day                 Constitution Day                Christmas Day               Columbus Day
Christmas Day             Children's Day                  St Stephan's Day            Veterans Day
Boxing Day                Marine Day                      New Year's Eve              Thanksgiving Day
New Years Eve             Respect-for-the-aged Day                                    Christmas Day
                          Autumn equinox Day
                          Health-Sports Day
                          Culture Day
                          Labour Day
                          Thanksgiving Day
                          Ordinary holiday
                          The Emperor's Day




                                                     25
Table 2: Descriptive statistics of currency performance over four-hour intraday
                            periods, round-the-clock.
    This table shows the descriptive statistics for intradaily and daily returns, excluding week-
ends, for each currency pair. Intraday (log) returns are calculated over non-overlapping 4-hour
periods. The first row shows the time of the day (GMT) and the second row indicates which
country or region is working during the diﬀerent hours of the day. The table shows the t -test
and Chi-square for testing the null hypothesis that there is equality in means and medians, and
Q-statistic for testing the null hypothesis that there is no autocorrelation at lag 1. Significance
at 1%, 5% and 10% is denoted by ***, ** and *, respectively.

EST              19-23      23-3         3-7        7-11      11-15      15-19      Whole
GMT               0-4        4-8        8-12       12-16      16-20      20-24      Daily
Working time      JP       JP - EU       EU       EU - US      US         US
CHF/USD
Mean            -1.00%     3.1%**     7.2%***     -6.1%***   -3.0%**     -0.80%     -0.10%
Median          -1.00%     2.8%***    7.9%***     -3.9%***    0.00%      0.00%      0.00%
Maximum          2.709       2.811      4.319        7.108     4.368      2.048       7.96
Minimum         -3.229      -3.585     -6.091       -5.405    -5.822     -3.885     -7.382
Std. Dev.        3.3%        5.1%       6.7%         5.4%      2.6%       2.9%       4.7%
Skewness         -0.12       -0.16      -0.25        -0.05     -0.25      -0.44      -0.21
Kurtosis          8.28        6.09       6.14         5.34      6.41       8.66       6.05
# of Obs         3274        3274       3274         3274      2620       2620       74652
Q-Stat 1         2.89*        0.15    7.96***     31.90***    4.77**       2.58         -
DEM/USD
Mean            0.50%       1.60%     5.0%***     -5.8%***    0.30%      0.30%       0.30%
Median          0.80%       0.00%     3.8%***     -6.6%***    0.80%      0.00%       0.00%
Maximum         1.753        2.315      3.475        6.202     4.753     1.821         6.8
Minimum          -2.49      -3.212     -4.447       -4.849    -4.928     -2.95       -5.763
Std. Dev.        2.7%        4.1%       5.7%         5.0%      2.5%      2.8%         4.1%
Skewness         -0.34       0.08       -0.03         0.22     -0.27     -0.75        -0.1
Kurtosis          6.7        6.54        7.15         6.83      8.71     10.65        7.63
# of Obs         1250        1561       1561         1561      1561       1249       35595
Q-Stat 1          1.07       0.02     27.86***    18.86***    6.51**      0.87          -
EUR/USD
Mean            -1.40%      -3.10%    10.3%***     -2.30%    -6.4%***    1.50%      -0.30%
Median          0.00%       -1.4%*    10.8%***     1.40%     -5.7%***    1.10%      0.00%
Maximum          2.569       2.758      4.034       3.433       4.313     1.641      5.072
Minimum         -1.751      -3.732      -4.15      -4.645      -4.828    -2.379     -8.956
Std. Dev.        3.2%        5.1%       6.2%        4.6%        2.4%      2.7%       4.4%
Skewness          0.2        -0.38      -0.14       -0.21       -0.14     -0.06      -0.22
Kurtosis          6.29        6.67       5.31        4.4         6.41      6.08       5.49
# of Obs         1371        1713       1713        1713        1713      1371       39060
Q-Stat 1          0.22       3.48*       0.01     19.70***       0.83      1.24         -
JPY/EUR
Mean            2.8%*       -2.80%    -8.0%***    -0.90%     6.2%***     0.10%      -0.60%
Median          1.30%       -1.4%*    -4.2%***     0.00%     5.7%***     0.90%      0.00%
Maximum          4.791       4.961      4.239       5.525       3.88      4.627      8.942
Minimum         -7.435       -4.56      -5.09      -4.791     -6.033     -9.409     -9.409
Std. Dev.        4.2%        6.0%       6.4%        4.8%       3.5%       4.6%       4.9%
Skewness         -0.07       -0.01      -0.33       -0.08      -0.31      -2.68      -0.18
Kurtosis         13.16        8.23       5.96        5.51       8.26      51.72       7.3
# of Obs         1713        1713       1713        1713       1370       1712       39836
Q-Stat 1          2.91        0.64       0.03     7.70***       0.95       0.55        -
JPY/USD
Mean            2.7%**     -2.40%      -0.60%     -4.0%***   2.8%**      0.30%      -0.20%
Median          1.3%*      -1.3%*       0.00%     -3.7%***   2.5%**      1.10%       0.00%
Maximum          5.521       4.587      7.894        6.045    9.862       5.384      14.365
Minimum         -9.998      -6.118     -15.034      -8.348   -8.773      -4.153     -21.739
Std. Dev.        3.9%        5.4%       5.1%         5.3%     3.3%        4.8%        4.7%
Skewness         -0.66       -0.34      -1.89        -0.42    -0.04       -0.32       -0.75
Kurtosis          17.4       13.63      39.72        11.03    15.18       15.02       24.96
# of Obs         3274        3274        3274        3274     3274        3597       79219
Q-Stat 1       11.26***    9.43***       0.04      8.87***   4.12**         0           -




                                                 26
                Table 3: Four-hour returns patterns across working days.

For each currency pair, this table shows average daily and intradaily returns during the working
week. The table shows the t -test for testing the null hypothesis that there is equality in means
between the average return over a specific 4-hour period of a given day of the week and the
average return during the same intraday period of all the working days. Significance at 1%
and 5% is denoted by ** and *, respectively.

CHF/USD
Time                 Mon         Tue        Wed           Thu         Fri       Intraday
From 0 to 4                    0.90%       -1.20%       -4.00%      1.20%        -1.00%
From 4 to 8         2.90%      1.80%       2.60%        2.60%       5.00%        2.40%
From 8 to 12        10.2%*      2.4%*      3.40%        6.90%       7.00%        7.20%
From 12 to 16       -4.60%     -3.40%      -0.80%       -7.10%      -7.00%       -5.20%
From 16 to 20       -2.20%     -6.5%*      -1.30%      -7.9%**      1.1%**       -3.20%
From 20 to 24       -0.30%     -0.50%      -0.40%       -2.30%                   -0.80%
Day-effect          1.20%      -0.80%      0.40%        -1.90%      0.80%        0.00%
DEM/USD
Time                 Mon         Tue         Wed          Thu          Fri      Intraday
From 0 to 4                    1.80%        0.10%       -3.00%      3.20%        0.50%
From 4 to 8          3.60%     1.10%       -0.80%       -2.20%      6.50%        1.60%
From 8 to 12         7.70%     -0.10%      9.7%**        6.80%       1.0%*        5.00%
From 12 to 16      -11.7%**    1.7%**      -4.80%       -6.00%      -8.30%       -5.80%
From 16 to 20        3.20%     -1.20%       0.70%      -10.8%**     9.8%**       0.30%
From 20 to 24       -1.30%     1.40%       1.30%        -0.30%                   0.30%
Day-effect           0.50%     0.40%       0.90%        -2.70%      2.30%        0.00%
EUR/USD
Time                 Mon         Tue          Wed         Thu         Fri       Intraday
From 0 to 4                     1.00%       -2.70%      -3.10%      -0.60%       -1.40%
From 4 to 8         -5.20%     -3.90%       -6.10%      -0.60%      0.50%        -3.10%
From 8 to 12        13.7%*      8.70%      14.6%**      9.30%       5.3%**      10.30%
From 12 to 16        1.5%*    -10.5%**       2.6%*      -4.70%      -0.70%       -2.30%
From 16 to 20       -5.80%     -7.40%       -3.90%      -8.70%      -6.20%       -6.40%
From 20 to 24       4.40%      -0.20%       2.90%       -1.00%                   1.50%
Day-effect          1.10%      -1.60%        1.00%      -1.00%      -0.80%       0.00%
JPY/EUR
Time                  Mon        Tue          Wed         Thu         Fri       Intraday
From 0 to 4         -3.7%*     3.40%         2.50%      1.50%      10.5%**        2.90%
From 4 to 8         -1.70%     -0.20%       -0.40%      -7.1%*      -4.50%       -2.80%
From 8 to 12       -15.7%**    -7.40%       -5.70%      -5.10%      -5.30%       -7.80%
From 12 to 16       2.8%**     1.60%       -5.7%**      1.50%       -4.6%*       -0.90%
From 16 to 20        6.10%     -0.10%        8.00%      10.90%                    6.20%
From 20 to 24        0.50%     2.40%        -1.90%      6.70%                     0.20%
Day-effect          -2.60%     0.00%        -0.10%      0.10%       0.50%        -0.60%
JPY/USD
Time                 Mon         Tue         Wed          Thu         Fri       Intraday
From 0 to 4         -1.5%*     2.60%       2.50%       -3.5%**     13.6%**       2.70%
From 4 to 8         -2.40%     -3.00%      -4.50%       -0.10%      -1.80%       -2.50%
From 8 to 12        0.40%      0.80%       3.4%**       -3.30%      -4.5%*       -0.60%
From 12 to 16       -5.20%     -4.80%      -0.70%      -8.1%**      -1.00%       -4.00%
From 16 to 20       4.70%     -5.8%**      4.60%        3.90%       6.6%*        2.80%
From 20 to 24       2.50%      -1.90%       0.50%       -0.60%      -0.40%        0.30%
Day-effect          -0.50%     -1.80%       1.10%       -2.20%      2.50%        0.00%




                                               27
                            Table 4: Strategy performance.

For each currency pair, this table shows the performance of diﬀerent trading strategies im-
plemented at specific times during the working week. The long (short) trading rule takes a
4-hour long (short) position in domestic currency each working day at times which coincide
with pre-established foreign (domestic) working hours. The long-short strategy combines the
first two rules. The fourth and fifth trading rules implement a short-long strategy on a spe-
cific day in the working week, i.e. Mondays, Thursdays or Fridays. Taking annualised values,
performance is evaluated in terms of the mean return, standard deviation and Sharpe ratio.
Columns 5-7 show the results of the market model estimation where the dependent variable is
the intraday return on a given day resulting from one of the five trading strategies, while the
explanatory variables are a constant (alpha) and the daily return on the respective currency
pair (beta). R-2 indicates the adjusted R-squared. Column 8 shows the break-even cost for
each currency strategy, i.e. the implicit maximum cost necessary to avoid incurring losses.
Using the Reuters representative quotes, the last column shows the average bid-ask spread
size surrounding the beginning and end time of the intraday holding periods. The t-statistic
is used to test the hypothesis that a regression coeﬃcient is equal to zero. Significance at 1%
and 5% is denoted by ** and *, respectively.

                                                                                   Break-even  Reuters
CHF/USD                 Mean     StDev      SR      Alpha       Beta       R-2        Cost     Spread
Long 8:00-12:00         7.21%    5.12%     1.41    0.073**    0.196**    18.6%        2.8        6.2
Short 12:00-16:00       5.17%    6.68%     0.77    0.049**   -0.377**    40.3%        2.0        5.6
Long+Short             12.38%    8.43%     1.47    0.123**   -0.181**     5.8%        2.4        5.9
Long+Short Mondays     14.76%    7.29%     2.02    0.156**    -0.105*     2.1%        14.2       5.9
Long+Short Thursday    13.95%    9.14%     1.53    0.113**   -0.218**     7.3%        13.4       5.9
DEM/USD                 Mean     StDev      SR      Alpha       Beta    R-square   Break-even R. Spread
Long 8:00-12:00         5.01%    4.09%     1.22    0.048**    0.075**     3.4%         1.9       7.4
Short 12:00-16:00       5.80%    5.71%     1.02    0.059**   -0.087**     2.3%         2.2       7.4
Long+Short             10.81%    6.98%     1.55    0.108**     -0.011     0.9%         2.1       7.3
Long+Short Mondays     19.39%    5.45%     3.56    0.197**    -0.065*     1.2%        18.6       7.3
Long+Short Thursday    12.81%    7.89%     1.62    0.011**   -0.252**    11.1%        12.3       7.4
EUR/USD                 Mean     StDev      SR      Alpha       Beta    R-square   Break-even R. Spread
Long 8:00-12:00        10.32%    5.12%     2.02    0.107**    0.215**    19.3%         4.0       3.1
Short 16:00-20:00       6.39%    4.63%     1.38    0.060**   -0.223**    25.5%         2.5       2.9
Long+Short             16.71%    6.95%     2.41    0.167**     -0.009     0.8%         3.2       3.0
Long+Short Mondays     19.48%    6.67%     2.92    0.186**    0.120**     2.4%        18.7       2.9
Long+Short Thursday    18.01%    7.18%     2.51    0.177**     -0.032     0.2%        17.3       2.9
JPY/EUR                 Mean     StDev      SR      Alpha       Beta    R-square   Break-even R. Spread
Long 0:00-4:00          2.84%    4.59%     0.62    0.032*     0.132**    11.5%         1.1       6.1
Short 8:00-12:00        8.00%    5.96%     1.34    0.074**   -0.249**    24.3%         3.1       6.5
Long+Short             10.84%    7.43%     1.46    0.105**   -0.117**     3.5%         2.1       6.4
Long+Short Mondays     11.84%    9.05%     1.31    0.122**     -0.108     2.5%        11.4       6.2
Long+Short Fridays     15.75%    7.14%      2.2    0.158**   -0.153**     6.5%        15.1       6.2
JPY/USD                 Mean     StDev      SR      Alpha       Beta    R-square   Break-even R. Spread
Long 0:00-4:00          2.73%    4.79%     0.57     0.021     0.195**    21.5%         1.1       3.1
Short 12:00-16:00       3.97%    5.12%     0.78     0.032    -0.176**    18.5%         1.5       2.9
Long+Short              6.70%    6.94%     0.96     0.053       0.019     0.1%         1.3       3.0
Long+Short Mondays      3.66%    7.27%      0.5    0.156**    0.205**     7.2%         3.5       3.1
Long+Short Fridays     14.61%    7.11%     2.06    0.142**      0.036     0.4%        14.0       3.0




                                              28
                 Table 5: The SUR model regression on 4-hour intraday returns.
This table shows the estimates from a Seemingly Unrelated Regression (SUR) model that
analyses intraday price dynamics. The first (second) column titled Y (X) reports the elements
in a matrix of the response (explanatory) variables. The day is broken down into six 4-hour
                            h−h+4
periods. Thus, rt          designates the return from intraday time h to four hours ahead
(GMT) on day t. The t -statistic is used to test the hypothesis that a regression coeﬃcient is
equal to zero. Significance at 1% and 5% is denoted by ** and *, respectively. R squares are
also reported.

     Y                   X                CHFUSD     DEMUSD        EURUSD     JPYEUR     JPYUSD
       20-24
    Rt                Constant             -0.001     0.002         0.004      -0.001       0
                            16-20
                       Rt                 -0.018*    -0.023*        -0.011    -0.057**   -0.050**
                       R t12-16            0.009      0.005         0.002      -0.008    -0.023*
                            8-12
                       Rt                 -0.040**   -0.036**       -0.004    -0.086**   -0.055**
                              4-8
                        Rt                 -0.004     -0.01         0.003      0.005     -0.034*
                            0-24
                       Rt                  0.011      0.014        -0.178**    -0.01     0.024*
                            20-24
                      R t-1               -0.040*     -0.02         -0.034     0.024      0.02
                                     R2    1.20%      0.90%         4.20%      2.70%     1.90%
         16-20
    Rt                Constant            -0.012*     0.002        -0.023**   0.020**    0.012*
                            12-16
                       Rt                 0.068**    0.063**       0.057**    0.040*     0.045*
                       R t8-12              0.01      0.026         -0.009     -0.011     -0.01
                              4-8
                        Rt                 0.053      0.042         0.016     0.049*      0.031
                              0-4
                        Rt                 -0.003     0.022         0.089      0.017     0.039*
                      R t-120-24           -0.057     -0.002        -0.092     0.056     0.094**
                            16-20
                      R t-1                -0.031    -0.065**       -0.021     -0.019     -0.025
                                     R2    1.00%      1.00%         1.10%      0.90%      0.80%
         12-16
    Rt                Constant            -0.021**   -0.025**        -0.01     -0.001    -0.016**
                            8-12
                       Rt                  -0.008     0.013         -0.028     0.038      0.008
                        R t4-8             -0.059     -0.091        0.001      -0.007     0.031
                              0-4
                        Rt                 0.038      0.068         -0.017     -0.012     0.02
                            20-24
                      R t-1                 0.06      0.072         -0.063     0.024      0.04
                      R t-116-20           0.017      0.049         -0.047     -0.038    -0.042*
                            12-16
                      R t-1               -0.100**   -0.114**      -0.103**   -0.067**   -0.051**
                                     R2     1.10%      1.80%         1.40%     0.70%      0.60%
         8-12
    Rt                Constant             0.030**    0.022**       0.038**   -0.032**    -0.003
                              4-8
                        Rt                -0.080**    -0.067       -0.091*     -0.039     -0.036
                        R t0-4             0.054      0.019         0.065      0.045     0.050*
                            20-24
                      R t-1                  0        -0.01         -0.041     0.047      0.056
                            16-20
                      R t-1                0.004      -0.021        -0.024     0.035     0.108**
                      R t-112-16           0.005      -0.011        0.038     0.052*     0.078**
                              8-12
                      R t-1               -0.049**   -0.134**        0.004     -0.003     0.005
                                     R2    0.60%      2.10%         0.70%      0.70%      1.90%
          4-8
     Rt               Constant             0.008*      0.007       -0.015**    -0.008    -0.009*
                              0-4
                        Rt                -0.117**   -0.157**       -0.039    -0.054*     -0.017
                      R t-120-24          -0.071**   -0.073*        -0.035    -0.060*    -0.049*
                            16-20
                      R t-1               -0.042**   -0.032*        -0.024    -0.056*     0.003
                            12-16
                      R t-1                0.005      0.012         0.004      0.026     0.059**
                      R t-18-12            0.025*     0.008        0.043**     0.021      -0.011
                              4-8
                       R t-1                0.004     0.011         -0.039     0.028     -0.057**
                                     R2    1.50%      2.40%         0.90%      1.10%      1.10%
          0-4
     Rt               Constant             -0.005     0.002         -0.005     0.012      0.012*
                            20-24
                      R t-1               -0.236**   -0.198**       -0.004    -0.102*    -0.165**
                      R t-116-20             0        -0.004        0.013      0.019     -0.092**
                            12-16
                      R t-1                0.006     0.030**          0        0.011      -0.003
                              8-12
                      R t-1               0.034**     0.029         0.05      0.048*     0.034*
                       R t-14-8            0.034*     0.032        0.035**    0.076*      0.019
                              0-4
                       R t-1               -0.024     -0.034       0.016*      -0.041    -0.053**
                                     R2    5.40%      4.00%        1.40%       1.90%      2.70%




                                                              29
                   Table 6: Cross-sectional returns on bank holidays.

For each currency pair, this table shows the cross-sectional average returns on regular business
days and oﬃcial national holidays. Returns are calculated over two 4-hour periods that
constitute representative working hours for the country pairs listed in the second column.
The third (fourth) column indicates whether the day in question is an oﬃcial national holiday
for the foreign (domestic) country. Column 5-7 reports the number of observations or days,
the annualised mean returns, and two-tail t-statistics for testing the diﬀerence in return means
between working days and holidays. The last two columns show the standard deviation for
the average return and the results of the F-test for evaluating variance equality.



Currency Working Time Foreign Festivity   Domestic Festivity Nbr Obs    Mean    t -test   StDev   F-test
CHF/USD Swiss         No holiday          No holiday          2931      7.2%              5.4%
                      Swiss holidays      No holiday           69       -4.6%   0.01      4.1%    0.00
                      No holiday          US holidays         102      19.8%    0.03      4.1%    0.00
         US           No holiday          No holiday          2898      -5.2%             6.7%
                      Swiss holidays      No holiday           69      -21.0%   0.05      8.1%    0.00
                      No holiday          US holidays         102       -7.5%   0.41      3.8%    0.00

DEM/USD German          No holiday        No holiday         1492        5.0%             5.0%
                        German holidays   No holiday          69        -4.6%   0.04      3.5%    0.00
                        No holiday        US holidays         47        16.5%   0.06      3.5%    0.00
          US            No holiday        No holiday         1492       -5.8%             5.7%
                        German holidays   No holiday          69       -21.1%   0.06      7.7%    0.19
                        No holiday        US holidays         47        -4.6%   0.45      3.6%    0.00

EUR/USD EU              No holiday        No holiday         1677      10.3%              4.6%
                        German holidays   No holiday          36       -3.2%    0.03      3.9%    0.00
                        No holiday        US holidays         54       13.9%    0.34      3.9%    0.00
          US            No holiday        No holiday         1677      -2.3%              6.2%
                        German holidays   No holiday          36       -4.7%    0.16      5.6%    0.01
                        No holiday        US holidays         54       -1.6%    0.21      3.2%    0.00

JPY/EUR Japan           No holiday        No holiday         1659       2.8%              4.6%
                        Japan holidays    No holiday          54       -16.3%   0.01      3.9%    0.26
                        No holiday        German holidays     38        -0.2%   0.01      4.1%    0.00
          EU            No holiday        No holiday         1659       -8.0%             6.0%
                        Japan holidays    No holiday          54       -13.9%   0.15      5.0%    0.26
                        No holiday        German holidays     38        -4.3%   0.33      3.1%    0.00

JPY/USD Japan           No holiday        No holiday         3070      2.7%               4.8%
                        Japan holidays    No holiday         204       0.2%     0.28      4.5%    0.34
                        No holiday        US holidays        100       5.0%     0.39      5.1%    0.00
          US            No holiday        No holiday         3070      -4.0%              5.1%
                        Japan holidays    No holiday         204       -2.3%    0.39      4.1%    0.01
                        No holiday        US holidays        100       -0.1%    0.24      4.1%    0.00
                                                                                                           .




                                                        30
                              For each currency pair, these graphs show 24 cross-sectional averages for annualised returns

                                                                                                                                                         from 23 to 3                                                              from 23 to 3
                                                                                                                                                         from 22 to 2                                                              from 22 to 2
                                                                                                                                                         from 21 to 1                                                              from 21 to 1
                                                                                                                                                         from 20 to 24                                                             from 20 to 24
                                                                                                                                                         from 19 to 23                                                             from 19 to 23
                              over four hours. T-statistics were used to test (homoscedastic) equality in means. T-statistics

                                                                                                                                                         from 18 to 22                                                             from 18 to 22
                                                                                                                                                         from 17 to 21                                                             from 17 to 21
                                                                                                                                                         from 16 to 20                                                             from 16 to 20
                                                                                                                                                         from 15 to 19                                                             from 15 to 19
Figure 1: Intraday Patterns
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Figure 1B: DEMUSD


                              refer to two-tail statistics with respect to the diﬀerence between a given 4-hour return mean
                                                                                                                                                                                           Figure 1A: CHFUSD




                                                                                                                                                         from 14 to 18                                                             from 14 to 18
                                                                                                                                                         from 13 to 17                                                             from 13 to 17
                                                                                                                                                         from 12 to 16                                                             from 12 to 16
                                                                                                                                                         from 11 to 15                                                             from 11 to 15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         31
                                                                                                                                                         from 10 to 14                                                             from 10 to 14
                              and all the other 4-hour returns. Black (grey) bars mean that an average return over a specific

                                                                                                                                                         from 9 to 13                                                              from 9 to 13
                                                                                                                                                         from 8 to 12                                                              from 8 to 12
                                                                                                                                                         from 7 to 11                                                              from 7 to 11
                                                                                                                                                         from 6 to 10                                                              from 6 to 10
                              4-hour time period is diﬀerent at a 1% (5%) significance level. The time of day is expressed


                                                                                                                                                         from 5 to 9                                                               from 5 to 9
                                                                                                                                                         from 4 to 8                                                               from 4 to 8
                                                                                                                                                         from 3 to 7                                                               from 3 to 7
                                                                                                                                                         from 2 to 6                                                               from 2 to 6
                                                                                                                                                         from 1 to 5                                                               from 1 to 5
                              in GMT.

                                                                                                                                                         from 0 to 4                                                               from 0 to 4
                                                                                                                                8%   6%   4%   2%   0%         -2%       -4%   -6%   -8%                       6%   4%   2%   0%          -2%      -4%   -6%   -8%
                                     from 23 to 3                                                                       from 23 to 3
                                     from 22 to 2                                                                       from 22 to 2
                                     from 21 to 1                                                                       from 21 to 1
                                     from 20 to 24                                                                      from 20 to 24
                                     from 19 to 23                                                                      from 19 to 23
                                     from 18 to 22                                                                      from 18 to 22
                                     from 17 to 21                                                                      from 17 to 21
                                     from 16 to 20                                                                      from 16 to 20
                                     from 15 to 19                                                                      from 15 to 19
                                                                     Figure 1C: EURUSD                                                                         Figure 1D: JPYEUR




                                     from 14 to 18                                                                      from 14 to 18
                                     from 13 to 17                                                                      from 13 to 17
                                     from 12 to 16                                                                      from 12 to 16
                                     from 11 to 15                                                                      from 11 to 15
                                                                                                                        from 10 to 14
                                                                                                                                                                                   32
                                     from 10 to 14
                                     from 9 to 13                                                                       from 9 to 13
                                     from 8 to 12                                                                       from 8 to 12
                                     from 7 to 11                                                                       from 7 to 11
                                     from 6 to 10                                                                       from 6 to 10
                                     from 5 to 9                                                                        from 5 to 9
                                     from 4 to 8                                                                        from 4 to 8
                                     from 3 to 7                                                                        from 3 to 7
                                     from 2 to 6                                                                        from 2 to 6
                                     from 1 to 5                                                                        from 1 to 5
                                     from 0 to 4                                                                        from 0 to 4
12%   10%   8%   6%   4%   2%   0%       -2%       -4%   -6%   -8%                       10%   8%   6%   4%   2%   0%       -2%       -4%   -6%   -8%   -10%
                         from 23 to 3
                         from 22 to 2
                         from 21 to 1
                         from 20 to 24
                         from 19 to 23
                         from 18 to 22
                         from 17 to 21
                         from 16 to 20
                         from 15 to 19
                                                                 Figure 1E: JPYUSD




                         from 14 to 18
                         from 13 to 17
                         from 12 to 16
                         from 11 to 15
                                                                                     33
                         from 10 to 14
                         from 9 to 13
                         from 8 to 12
                         from 7 to 11
                         from 6 to 10
                         from 5 to 9
                         from 4 to 8
                         from 3 to 7
                         from 2 to 6
                         from 1 to 5
                         from 0 to 4
4%   3%   2%   1%   0%        -1%        -2%   -3%   -4%   -5%
                                Figure 2: Patterns across years

For each currency pair, these figures show the year-by-year cross-sectional return averages
(in annual terms) for a representative 4-hour period in domestic and foreign business hours.
Figure 2 A refers to the appreciation in the domestic currency during foreign working hours.
Figure 2 B refers to the depreciation in the domestic currency during domestic working hours.


   20%




   15%




   10%

                                                                                                    CHFUSD
                                                                                                    DEMUSD
    5%                                                                                              EURUSD
                                                                                                    JPYEUR
                                                                                                    JPYUSD

    0%

         1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005


   -5%




  -10%


  Figure 2A: Domestic currency appreciation during counterpart working time
   20%


   15%


   10%


    5%
                                                                                                    CHFUSD
    0%                                                                                              DEMUSD

         1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   EURUSD
   -5%                                                                                              JPYEUR
                                                                                                    JPYUSD

  -10%


  -15%


  -20%


  -25%


    Figure 2B: Domestic currency depreciation during domestic working time




                                                    34
Swiss National Bank Working Papers published since 2004:

2004-1   Samuel Reynard: Financial Market Participation and the Apparent Instability of
         Money Demand

2004-2   Urs W. Birchler and Diana Hancock: What Does the Yield on Subordinated
         Bank Debt Measure?

2005-1   Hasan Bakhshi, Hashmat Khan and Barbara Rudolf: The Phillips curve under
         state-dependent pricing

2005-2   Andreas M. Fischer: On the Inadequacy of Newswire Reports for Empirical
         Research on Foreign Exchange Interventions

2006-1   Andreas M. Fischer: Measuring Income Elasticity for Swiss Money Demand:
         What do the Cantons say about Financial Innovation?

2006-2   Charlotte Christiansen and Angelo Ranaldo: Realized Bond-Stock Correlation:
         Macroeconomic Announcement Effects

2006-3   Martin Brown and Christian Zehnder: Credit Reporting, Relationship Banking,
         and Loan Repayment

2006-4   Hansjörg Lehmann and Michael Manz: The Exposure of Swiss Banks to
         Macroeconomic Shocks – an Empirical Investigation

2006-5   Katrin Assenmacher-Wesche and Stefan Gerlach: Money Growth, Output Gaps and
         Inflation at Low and High Frequency: Spectral Estimates for Switzerland

2006-6   Marlene Amstad and Andreas M. Fischer: Time-Varying Pass-Through from Import
         Prices to Consumer Prices: Evidence from an Event Study with Real-Time Data

2006-7   Samuel Reynard: Money and the Great Disinflation

2006-8   Urs W. Birchler and Matteo Facchinetti: Can bank supervisors rely on market data?
         A critical assessment from a Swiss perspective

2006-9   Petra Gerlach-Kristen: A Two-Pillar Phillips Curve for Switzerland

2006-10 Kevin J. Fox and Mathias Zurlinden: On Understanding Sources of Growth and
        Output Gaps for Switzerland

2006-11 Angelo Ranaldo: Intraday Market Dynamics Around Public Information Arrivals

2007-1   Andreas M. Fischer, Gulzina Isakova and Ulan Termechikov: Do FX traders in
         Bishkek have similar perceptions to their London colleagues? Survey evidence of
         market practitioners’ views
2007-2   Ibrahim Chowdhury and Andreas Schabert: Federal Reserve Policy viewed through
         a Money Supply Lens

2007-3   Angelo Ranaldo: Segmentation and Time-of-Day Patterns in Foreign Exchange
         Markets
Swiss National Bank Working Papers are also available at www.snb.ch, section Publications/Research
Subscriptions or individual issues can be ordered at Swiss National Bank, Fraumünsterstrasse 8, CH-8022 Zurich,
fax +41 44 631 81 14, E-mail library@snb.ch
