       Exploiting the dynamics of commodity futures curves



               Robert J. Bianchia, John Hua Fana, Joëlle Miffreb,c,, Tingxi Zhangd


               a. Griffith Business School, Griffith University, Brisbane, Australia
          b. Audencia Business School, 8 Route de la Jonelière, 44300, Nantes, France
                            c. Louis Bachelier Fellow, Paris, France
                              d. Curtin University, Perth, Australia




                                            Abstract
The Nelson-Siegel framework is employed to model the term structure of commodity futures
prices. Exploiting the information embedded in the level, slope and curvature parameters, we
develop novel investment strategies that assume short-term continuation of recent parallel,
slope or butterfly movements of futures curves. Systematic strategies based on the change in
the slope generate significant profits that are unrelated to previously documented risk factors
and can survive reasonable transaction costs. Further analysis demonstrates that the
profitability of the slope strategy increases with investor sentiment and is in part a
compensation for the drawdowns incurred during economic slowdowns. The profitability can
also be magnified through timing and persists under alternative specifications of the Nelson-
Siegel model.

Keywords: Commodity futures; Nelson-Siegel model; Slope strategy; Spread
JEL classifications: G12, G13
This version: July 16, 2023





    Corresponding author, Tel: +33 2 4037 3434.

E-mails: r.bianchi@griffith.edu.au (R. Bianchi), j.fan@griffith.edu.au (J. Fan), jmiffre@
audencia.com (J. Miffre) and riven.zhang@curtin.edu.au (T. Zhang).
                                                                                        1
1.   Introduction

The model of Nelson and Siegel (1987) (NS hereafter) is widely used to price the term

structure of interest rates. The three parameters of the model, interpreted as level, slope and

curvature, accurately capture the quasi-flat, upward-sloping, downward-sloping and humped

shapes of the zero-coupon yield curve and explain approximately 96% of its observed

variation. The popularity of the NS model stems from its parsimony, which induces stability

in the estimated parameters, a key feature in the design of successful investment strategies

(Diebold and Li, 2006). Following the seminal work of Nelson and Siegel (1987), attempts

have been made to price commodity futures curves using the same framework (Heidorn et al.,

2015; GrØnborg and Lunde, 2016; Karstanje et al., 2017). 1 Inspired by this research, we

employ the NS model to recover commodity futures price curves and then exploit the

information embedded in the level, slope and curvature parameters to develop a set of novel

investment strategies.

The NS model is found to capture, on average, more than 95% of the variation in commodity

futures curves, and thus, it demonstrates outstanding in-sample goodness-of-fit. The success

of the NS model stems from both the slope and curvature parameters. Regression estimates

reveal that the model captures only 38% (83%) of the variation in the observed price curve in

the absence of the slope (curvature) parameter.

We then exploit the information extracted from the level, slope and curvature parameters and

design novel long-short investment strategies. The proposed strategies, hereafter labelled as L

(Level), S (Slope) and C (Curvature), rely on the notion that recent parallel shifts (L strategy),

slope movements (S strategy) and butterfly oscillations (C strategy) of the futures curves will


1
  Heidorn et al. (2015) employ the NS model to investigate the impact of fundamental and
financial traders on crude oil futures markets. GrØnborg and Lunde (2016) use the NS model
to forecast oil futures prices. Karstanje et al. (2017) study the comovement across 24
commodity futures using a NS framework.
                                                                                        2
persist one day ahead. The recommended trades are then implemented on a cross section of 21

commodities by taking long and short positions on front-end contracts (L strategy), on slope

spreads (S strategy) or on butterfly spreads (C strategy).2 While the L strategy is unprofitable,

the S and C strategies generate large out-of-sample Sharpe ratios equal to 1.41 and 1.27,

respectively.

The remarkable performance of the S strategy survives the consideration of transaction costs

and exposure to commodity risk factors based on characteristics such as carry, hedging

pressure, curve-momentum, or relative basis, to name only a few. The positive and

statistically significant alphas of the S portfolio suggest that the slope strategy we propose

differs from the theoretically motivated and economically rational risk premia previously

identified in the asset pricing literature. This motivates us to examine its profits further. In

particular, we explore the sources of the observed performance confronting two standard

explanations: risk versus behavioral mispricing. We note that both justifications have merit in

explaining the observed profits. In support of a risk-based (rational) explanation, we show that

the S profits in part compensate investors for the drawdowns incurred when economic activity

slows down. In favor of a sentiment-based (behavioral) justification, we note that the S profits

rise with sentiment. The performance of the S strategy is driven by the short leg which stems

from the reluctance of traders to take short positions in high-sentiment periods (Stambaugh et

al., 2012). We further corroborate the behavioral explanation and the role of investor

psychology by showing that the long (short) leg of the S portfolio performs best on Fridays

(on Mondays) when investors are optimistic (pessimistic).




2
  In our paper, the term “slope spread” refers to a simultaneous long-short position in front
and distant maturity contracts for a given commodity, while the term “butterfly spread” refers
to two positions taken in mid-maturity contracts (i.e., the body of the butterfly) alongside two
opposite positions taken in the front and distant maturity contracts (i.e., the wings of the
butterfly) for a given commodity.
                                                                                               3
Further tests indicate that investors can benefit from a timing strategy that increases exposure

to the S strategy as dispersion in the NS slope betas rises. In various robustness checks, we

note that the performance of the S strategy does not depend upon the variation in test design,

such as the use of test assets with longer maturities, the addition of a seasonal adjustment to

the NS model, the use of smoothed signals, or the consideration of specific sectors. We

observe, however, a weakening of the S profits over time which could stem from recent

technological innovations that improve market efficiency (Zaremba et al., 2020), from

crowding (Kang et al., 2021), or from the prolonged accommodative monetary policy settings

of the past decade.

There is a well-established literature that describes the behavior of commodity futures prices

via continuous time models with latent state variables.3 Extensions of this literature to the NS

model only arrived recently (Heidorn et al., 2015; GrØnborg and Lunde, 2016; Karstanje et

al., 2017). Following these latest endeavors, we design for the first time three NS-based

dynamic trading strategies that exploit the information extracted from fitted commodity

futures curves. We establish the efficacy of the NS-based slope strategy, and thereby extend

the literature on the profitability of commodity strategies based on characteristics such as

inventory levels, roll yield, hedging pressure, past performance, skewness, liquidity, basis-

momentum and relative basis (Erb and Harvey, 2006; Gorton and Rouwenhorst, 2006; Miffre

and Rallis, 2007; Gorton et al., 2013; Yang, 2013; Szymanowska et al., 2014; Fernandez-

Perez et al., 2018; Koijen et al., 2018; Bakshi et al., 2019; Boons and Prado, 2019; Gu et al.,

2019). As our NS-based slope strategy recommends the trading of spreads instead of outright

front-end positions, our paper also contributes to a literature that studies the profitability of

spread strategies in commodity futures markets (Szymanowska et al., 2014; Boons and Prado,


3
  Important contributions include Gibson and Schwartz (1990), Schwartz (1997), Casassus
and Collin-Dufresne (2005). Heath (2019) recently extended this literature by developing an
affine futures pricing model with both unobserved and macroeconomic state variables.
                                                                                          4
2019; Paschke et al., 2020). Finally and to the best of our knowledge, our paper is the first to

design a butterfly strategy in commodity futures markets. As such, our work emphasizes the

importance of nonlinearities in commodity futures curves where the convexity at the front end

arises according to the model of Deaton and Laroque (1992) due to the non-negativity

constraint on inventories.

The paper proceeds as follows. Section 2 presents the NS model and details the methodology

employed in the design of the NS strategies. Section 3 describes the data and the benchmarks

used to appraise performance. Section 4 presents the results pertaining to the three NS

strategies, focusing on the in-sample fit of the NS model, transaction costs and out-of-sample

risk-adjusted performance. Given the high abnormal returns of the S strategy net of

transaction costs, Section 5 focuses on it exclusively, exploring inter alia the sources of the

observed performance and the potential gains obtained from timing the strategy. Finally,

Section 6 presents our conclusion.


2.   Nelson-Siegel methodology

2.1. Nelson-Siegel model

Following Nelson and Siegel (1987), Diebold and Li (2006), and Karstanje et al. (2017), we

use the following model to fit the futures curve of a given commodity at time t:


                                                                                   (1)


where          represents the price of a futures contract with a time-to-maturity of M

(expressed in number of months) at time t,    is the decay factor measured at time t and      is




                                                                                              5
the error term.4       ,    and      are the level, slope and curvature betas, respectively. For

each commodity, the three betas are estimated daily using the nearest four contracts.

The level beta is independent of maturity, affects all futures prices, and hence can be

interpreted as the long-term price, i.e., the price when maturity is infinite (M=+∞). The

changes in         capture parallel shifts in the futures price curve with the curve shifting up

when               and down when             .


The slope beta measures the sensitivity of futures prices to a function that starts at one and

decays to zero as maturity rises. It can be interpreted as the short- to long-term spread in the

futures curve, with a negative       indicating a contangoed upward-sloping price curve and a

positive      indicating a backwardated downward-sloping price curve. Changes in

capture slope movements in the futures price curve with positive                indicating more

backwardation or less contango and negative                suggesting more contango or less

backwardation.

The regressor related to the curvature beta is a function that starts at zero, peaks at a certain

value, and then diminishes to zero as maturity rises. Therefore, the curvature beta can be

viewed as a measure of the concavity (if              ) or convexity (if         ) of the curve.

Changes in         capture butterfly movements in the futures price curve with positive

denoting more concavity or less convexity and negative          denoting more convexity or less

concavity.



4
    is the value that maximizes                        when M equals the average maturity of
selected contracts along the futures curve at each point in time. There is no definite consensus
on the approach to be applied to determine the decay value. Karstanje et al. (2017) apply a
constant decay for each commodity, whereas GrØnborg and Lunde (2016) conduct a grid
search on intervals between 0.001 and 0.15 and select the value that minimizes the sum of
squared error terms over the sample period. To avoid look-ahead bias, this paper opts for a
time-varying decay that is estimated daily.
                                                                                               6
2.2. Nelson-Siegel strategies

The information contained in the NS parameters is then exploited to construct three strategies.

The strategies rely on the notion that the change in the NS parameters over the previous day is

a good predictor of the change in the NS parameters one-day ahead. In keeping with this

assumption, we design the following cross-sectional Level (L), Slope (S) and Curvature (C)

strategies.

Level (L): The L strategy sorts the cross section available at the time of portfolio formation in

descending order of        . It buys the front-month futures contracts of commodities with

positive      and shorts those with negative        .


Slope (S): The S strategy sorts the cross section in descending order of       and partitions the

data into two portfolios. The first portfolio takes a long slope-spread position (i.e., long the

front contract and short the fourth contract) in commodities with positive          . The second

portfolio takes a short slope-spread position in the remaining commodities (i.e., short the front

contract and long the fourth contract). In both settings, we anticipate a steepening of the slope,

becoming either more backwardated (long spread) or more contangoed (short spread).

Curvature (C): The C strategy is deemed to benefit from the butterfly oscillations along the

curve. It sorts the cross section in descending order of       and divides it into two portfolios.

The first portfolio is a long butterfly-spread strategy (i.e., short the front contract, long the

second contract twice and short the fourth contract). This position is deemed to benefit from

an increase in the concavity of the curve. The second portfolio is a short butterfly-spread

strategy (i.e., long the front contract, short the second contract twice and long the fourth

contract). This position is deemed to benefit from an increase in the convexity of the curve.

The long butterfly strategy is applied to the commodities with positive            and the short

butterfly strategy is implemented on the remaining markets.

                                                                                                7
Irrespective of the strategy considered, the NS model is estimated daily. The strategies are set

up at the end of day t and implemented for one day. They are fully collateralized and allocate

an equal amount of capital to the longs and shorts; thus, the weights assigned to the individual

contracts are not necessarily the same. Taking the L strategy as an example, this translates into

                                where       is the weight assigned to contract j at time t, is the

number of contracts with                and N is the total number of contracts traded at portfolio

formation time t. Likewise, the S (C) strategies allocate an equal amount of capital to the long

and short slope (butterfly) spreads, again assuming full collateralization.


3.   Data and performance benchmarks

3.1. Futures contracts

Our sample consists of 21 commodity futures from seven sectors: Energy (crude oil, gasoline,

heating oil), Grains (corn, oats, rough rice, wheat), Industrial materials (cotton, lumber),

Meats (feeder cattle, live cattle, live hogs), Metals (copper, gold, silver), Oilseeds (soybean

meal, soybean oil, soybeans) and Softs (cocoa, coffee, orange juice). The cross section of

markets follows Szymanowska et al. (2014). Daily settlement price, volume and open interest

are obtained from Bloomberg and the Commodity Research Bureau (CRB), while weekly

trader position data are retrieved from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC)

commitments of traders (CoT) report. The sample covers the period from January 1992 to

June 2019 with the starting date dictated by data availability of the CoT report. To compile

the time-series variables (i.e., return, settlement price, volume, and open interest), we assume

that investors hold a given contract until the last trading day before the front contract enters its

maturity month. One-period excess return is defined as                     , where     denotes the

settlement price for a given contract at day t.




                                                                                                  8
Table 1 presents the annualized mean and annualized standard deviation of the excess returns

of long outright positions in the front to fourth contracts, long slope spread positions (long in

the front contract and short in the fourth contract) and long butterfly spread positions (short in

the front contract, long in the second contract twice and short in the fourth contract). All

positions are fully collateralized. Figure 1 illustrates the open interest of the front to 12th

contracts as averaged over time and across commodities.

                              [Insert Table 1 and Figure 1 around here]

With only a few exceptions, the excess returns of long outright positions are not statistically

different from zero, confirming the absence of a long-only risk premium at the individual

commodity level (Erb and Harvey, 2006). Volatility is high especially at the front end of the

curve. Liquidity decreases along the futures curve (Figure 1), with the nearest four contracts

representing on average 82.2% of total open interest (as shown in the last column of Table 1

and in Figure 1). These liquidity empirics support our choice of maturities.

Similar to the long outright positions, most long slope spreads and long butterfly spreads

exhibit insignificant mean excess returns at the 10% significance level. We note some

propensity for the futures curves to be upward-sloping (5 long slope spread strategies exhibit

negative mean excess returns at the 10% level, suggesting that a short slope spread is

profitable) and convex (7 long butterfly strategies yield negative mean excess returns at the 10%

level, suggesting that a short butterfly strategy is optimal). It is noticeable that the excess

returns of both the long slope and long butterfly strategies are less volatile than those of long

outright positions, which highlights the hedging effectiveness of spreads (Melamed, 1981).

3.2. Benchmarks

To evaluate the performance of the L, S and C strategies, two types of commodity benchmarks

are constructed: naive and traditional risk factors. Table 2 presents summary statistics of their

                                                                                                9
performance.5 Similar to the NS strategies, the naive benchmark LAVG is an equal-weight,

long-only, market-wide level portfolio based on front contracts, while the SAVG (CAVG) is

an equal-weight, long-only portfolio of slope (butterfly) spreads. All three naive benchmark

portfolios are rebalanced daily. SAVG and CAVG incur yearly average losses of 0.46% and

0.27%, respectively, with the latter being significant at the 5% level. The average LAVG

return is indistinguishable from zero. This result is consistent with the lack of statistical

significance observed in Table 1 for the long front positions (M = 1), the long slope spreads,

and the long butterfly spreads as implemented at the individual commodity level.

                                  [Insert Table 2 around here]

Moreover, nine traditional risk factors are constructed, namely, a long-only market portfolio

(AVG), momentum (MOM), carry (CARRY), hedging pressure (HP), skewness (SKEW),

basis-momentum (BMOM), relative basis (RB), liquidity (LIQ) and curve momentum (Curve-

M). The sorting signals and representative studies are detailed in Appendix A. The

constituents are equal-weighted, while the positions are fully collateralized and rebalanced at

the end of each month. In keeping with the NS strategies, 50% of the exposure is invested in

the longs and likewise in the shorts.6 As reported in Table 2, Panel B, all portfolios except for

AVG and LIQ exhibit positive mean excess returns at the 10% level.

Following the recent factor zoo literature, we test whether the excess returns of the NS

strategies reflect compensation for exposure to risk factors that are not specific to commodity


5
 All Newey and West (1987) adjusted t-statistics in this study employ the Bartlett kernel to
estimate the lag length truncation parameter.
6
  It is worth noting that our estimated traditional risk premia are generally lower than
previously documented in the literature for three reasons. First, the long and short portfolios
contain 50% of the available cross section (rather than the extreme quintiles as typically
considered). As a result, the signals may be less strong. Second, we assume no leverage, while
others (e.g., Miffre and Rallis, 2007) assume a leverage of 2. Third, as argued by Kang et al.
(2021), a crowding effect has led to a deterioration in factor mean returns in the most recent
period.
                                                                                             10
futures markets. Similar to Ilmanen et al. (2021), we consider the long-short factors based on

value, momentum and carry across all asset classes, as well as data on sentiment,

macroeconomic and financial variables. Section 5 provides further information on these

variables.


4.   Main empirical results

4.1. In-sample goodness-of-fit

The novelty of employing the NS model in commodity futures is that it widens the

perspective beyond the front contract in understanding futures price dynamics. This leads to

the question of how capable the NS model is at capturing the shape of the commodity futures

curve. To investigate this issue, we estimate Equation (1) daily from January 1992 to June

2019 for each commodity curve. Table 3 presents summary statistics of the estimated NS

parameters and goodness-of-fit statistics. Figure 2 plots the level betas, slope betas and

settlement prices of the front contracts of selected commodities.

                           [Insert Table 3 and Figure 2 around here]

The column labelled “Average R2” highlights the excellent fit of the NS model as it explains,

on average, 96.5% of the in-sample variation in commodity futures curves. The last two

columns document the impact on the goodness-of-fit statistics of omitting either the slope or

curvature components from Equation (1). The model fit decreases to 37.5% and 82.7%, on

average, when the slope or curvature component is omitted, respectively. Clearly, all three

components are essential in fitting commodity futures curves, suggesting that the term

structures of these markets are subject to both parallel and non-parallel shifts over time.


The average level betas are always positive, which is expected since         measures long-term

settlement prices. Out of the 21 average slope betas, 17 are negative (at the third decimal),

suggesting that commodity markets were often in contango over the period from January 1992

                                                                                              11
to June 2019. Figure 2 confirms the positivity of the level betas and the tendency for the slope

betas to be negative, for example, for gold and corn. Because the average curvature betas are

either positive or negative, we do not note a propensity for the futures curves to be either

concave or convex. It is noticeable, however, that all the commodities with convex curves (or

with negative average curvature betas) happen to also be, on average, in contango (i.e., they

exhibit negative average slope betas). This figuratively translates into a steep rise of the

distant part of the curve in conjunction with a front-end that is relatively flattened. Lastly,

even though some commodities report high standard deviations in Table 3, one should not

misinterpret this as a lack of persistence in the estimated betas over time. The daily changes in

beta indeed exhibit strong persistence and the majority exhibits p-values indicating a rejection

of no serial correlation.

4.2. NS strategies

The excellent fit of the NS model leads us to the next discussion. Can we exploit the

information embedded in the level, slope and curvature parameters to develop a set of novel

investment strategies that are profitable out-of-sample? To answer this question, Table 4

presents summary statistics for the performance of the long, short and long-short cross-

sectional portfolios based on the L, S and C strategies, respectively.7

                                  [Insert Table 4 around here]

Over the period spanning from January 1992 to June 2019, the L strategy fails to deliver a

significantly positive mean excess return, suggesting that the prices of the front contracts that

are traded substantially diverge from their long-run levels measured by        . This result is not



7
    The     CER       (power    utility    certainty-equivalent-return)   is     calculated     as
                                 , where        represents the strategy portfolio return at time
t+1, is the total number of trading days in a year and , the relative risk aversion parameter,
is set to 5. A positive CER indicates the strategy is superior to the risk-free asset.
                                                                                           12
surprising given our previous conclusion regarding the importance of modeling the slope and

curvature of the futures curves (Table 3). In sharp contrast, the S strategy based on the change

in the slope beta delivers an annualized mean excess return of 1.77% that is highly significant

(t-statistic=7.23) and a Sharpe ratio of 1.41. Likewise, the C strategy based on the change in

the curvature beta generates statistically significant profits, with a mean excess return of 0.68%

a year, a t-statistic of 5.34 and a Sharpe ratio of 1.23. The annualized standard deviation of the

C strategy equals 0.55% versus 1.25% for the S strategy and 6.30% for the L strategy.

Consistent with the results presented in Table 1, trading butterfly spreads is the least risky

investment strategy. It is worth noting that the performance of the long-short S and C

strategies is mostly driven by the underperformance of the short legs. We will discuss this

result in Section 5.2 when analyzing the impact of investor sentiment on performance.

The success of the S and C strategies indicates that a compelling investment opportunity

arises from harnessing the information embedded in the slope and curvature betas. While the

slope and curvature have been used as trading signals before (Erb and Harvey, 2006; Gorton

and Rouwenhorst, 2006; Gu et al., 2019), we are the first to use the NS model to extract the

slope and curvature of futures curves and to show that they hold profitable information out-of-

sample.

It is worth noting that the absolute annual excess returns of the S and C strategies are

statistically significant, but small. This is due to the low-risk profiles of slope and butterfly

spreads (Table 1) and to the fully-collateralized nature of our long-short portfolios. In practice,

the excess returns of these investment strategies can be magnified through leverage. This is

easy to manage in futures markets given that the required margins are much lower than the

notional values of the contracts. This is even more true for spread positions as the futures

margins can be as much as 80% lower than those required on outright positions (Dunis et al.,

2006).
                                                                                               13
Motivated by Moskowitz et al. (2012), we also implement the L, S and C cross-sectional

strategies in a time-series setting. Taking the L strategy as an example, we measure the

signal of each commodity curve i (i = 1,…, N) at the end of day t, we take a long position in

the front-end contract of the commodity i if                 and a short position if             .

Repeating the same strategy for all commodities (i = 1,…, N), we subsequently form an equal-

weighted and fully-collateralized portfolio that we hold for a day. Unlike the cross-sectional

portfolio, the time-series portfolio therefore takes an equal position in each commodity. We

proceed likewise with the          and         signals of the S and C time-series strategies, with

the only difference being that we then trade either slope spreads or butterfly spreads in place

of the front contracts.8 The time-series results are very similar to the cross-sectional results

reported in Table 4. For brevity, we omit these results, but they are available upon request.

4.3. Turnover and transaction costs

Our NS strategies are trading intensive since they assume daily rebalancing. It is therefore

important to evaluate the impact of transaction costs on performance. We center our attention

on the long-short strategies with positive and statistically significant mean excess returns in

Tables 2 and 4 and calculate their turnover (TO) as follows:



                                                                                   (2)


where         is the weight of contract for commodity c at day t+1 as dictated by the fully-

collateralized strategy under consideration,        denotes the actual weight of contract for

commodity c at the end of day t+1 prior to the rebalancing of the strategy and after accounting



8
    These assumptions translate into portfolio weights:              for the L strategy;
           for the S strategy and                    and             for the C strategy,
                                 st  nd   th
where j in       designates the 1 , 2 or 4 contract as present in the term structure of
commodity i at time t.
                                                                                     14
for the performance of the contract from t to t+1; namely,                          where

is the excess return of contract from day t to day t+1 and N is the total number of contracts

traded at time t under a given strategy. The turnover is a measure of trading intensity that

ranges from 0 (when there is no trading) to 2 (when all positions are reversed). It is worth

emphasizing that our turnover estimates account for roll-over effects 9 and the sum of the

absolute weights of all contracts involved at each time t equals 100% (to be compatible with

full collateralization).


Net returns,     , are measured as:




where      is the gross return at time t as previously calculated,                          and

      denote the turnover and transaction cost for contract i of commodity c at time t,

respectively.10 To keep transaction costs as low as possible, we assume that investors who

implement the S strategy do not execute outright positions in two contracts but rather directly

trade spreads and likewise, investors who follow the C strategy trade two spreads as opposed

to four contracts.11

We apply the following three transaction cost scenarios:


9
 When rolling contracts, the turnover at time t is calculated as                         where
pertains to the contract that is closed out and pertains to the contract that is entered into.
10
  Following Paschke et al. (2020), we multiply the transaction cost by 0.5 in Equation (3) to
account for round-trip costs.
11
   Market participants can trade futures spreads as any multi-legged instrument comprised of
outright futures and/or futures spreads. As opposed to composite spreads which requires the
trader to leg the two contracts separately, listed spreads only cross the bid-ask spread once
and requires much lower margins. For example, the below table shows exchange-recognized
spread                 types                  on                CME                   Globex:
https://www.cmegroup.com/confluence/display/EPICSANDBOX/
Spreads+and+Combinations+Available+on+CME+Globex
                                                                                           15
                         Scenario 1:


                         Scenario 2:


                         Scenario 3:


     is the commission fee per contract (          as suggested by Gao et al., 2018),      ,

and        are the multiplier, tick size and settlement price of contract i for commodity c at time

t, respectively, and    is the number of tick size assumed in estimating price impact. Following

Szakmary et al. (2010) and Paschke et al. (2020), TC1 and TC3 measure transaction costs as

the percentage of the sum of the commission fee and/or price impact to total contract value,

while TC2 is the average transaction cost of commodity futures documented in Locke and

Venkatesh (1997). In terms of price impact, recall that all strategies in this study transact at

the end of day settlement price. As a conservative measure, we introduce an additional price

impact component, computed as a quarter of tick size (                in Scenario 3), as in Locke

and Venkatesh (1997).

The results are summarized in Table 5 for the strategies with significant mean excess returns

in Tables 2 and 4. The daily turnover of the S (C) strategy equals 1.17 (1.20) which signifies

that the S and C strategies are trading intensive. The net mean excess returns of the S strategy

range from 0.55% to 1.31% per year and are statistically significant at the 5% level or better.

The corresponding Sharpe ratios remain high with a range from 0.44 to 1.04. They exceed, or

are equal to, the net Sharpe ratios of the traditional risk factors depending on the transaction

cost scenario considered.12 We note however that the net profits of the C strategy are much

lower with a range from -0.55% to 0.24% per year and are statistically less than zero under


12
  Despite their relatively high turnover (at 1.36, on average), the traditional strategies are
found to exhibit positive net mean excess returns under all three TC scenarios. This is due to
their relatively less frequent (end-of-month) rebalancing.
                                                                                            16
both TC2 and TC3. This transaction cost analysis demonstrates that investors should proceed

with caution when implementing the proposed S and C strategies. Only institutions that can

access commodity futures markets at low transaction costs can take advantage of temporal

mispricings in commodity futures curves. Given that each institution is subject to different

levels of transaction costs depending on their size and sophistication, practitioners may wish

to further calibrate the NS model and backtest procedures to suit their specific trading needs.

                                  [Insert Table 5 around here]

4.4. Are the excess returns of the S and C strategies related to risk premia?

Are the S and C profits merely compensation for exposure to premia obtained from naive

benchmarks and classical asset pricing theories? Or do they represent compensation for the

skills of selecting mispriced contracts along the futures curves? We answer these questions

through time-series regressions of the excess returns of the S and C strategies on various risk

premia. Table 6 presents the coefficient estimates of these spanning regressions, with

corresponding Newey and West (1987) adjusted t-statistics in parentheses. Panel A treats the

excess returns of the naive long-only level, slope and curvature portfolios as independent

variables, Panel B considers Bakshi et al. (2019) factors as well as additional characteristic-

sorted risk factors and finally, Panel C tests the hypothesis that the observed excess returns

represent compensation for global risks that do not solely originate from commodity markets.

Bearing this in mind, we consider risk factors including the excess returns of long-short

portfolios based on value, momentum and carry across all asset classes, as these factors are

deemed to capture funding liquidity, global recessions, and volatility risks (Asness et al. 2013;

Koijen et al., 2018). To allow comparison with the mean excess returns presented in Table 4,

the intercepts (alphas) are annualized. Since the NS strategies are more sensitive to

transaction costs than conventional commodity strategies, we report regression results based

on net returns (TC1).
                                                                                              17
                                 [Insert Table 6 around here]

The slope coefficients of the regressions are, for the most part, insignificant at the 5% level.

Interestingly, Table 6, Panel B shows that the S and C strategies exhibit insignificant loadings

with regards to the carry, curve-momentum, and relative basis strategies, respectively, and

thus, the NS-based slope and curvature strategies proposed here are different from the slope,

spread and curvature strategies previously documented in the literature. The alphas of the C

strategy are at times indistinguishable from zero, suggesting that once we account for risk and

transaction costs, the curvature signal is priced efficiently in the term structure of futures

prices. However, the net alphas of the S strategy are statistically significant at the 1% level

and equal to 1.24% a year, on average, which serves to justify our focus on the S strategy

hereafter.13


5.   Further investigation of the performance of the slope strategy

Our results thus far indicate strong predictability of commodity futures returns based on

expected changes in the slope parameter. This section first explores the sources of the

observed performance challenging two alternative explanations: risk versus sentiment-based

mispricing. We also test inter alia whether the S profits can be magnified through timing and

whether they persist over time, across sectors or under alternative specifications of the NS

model. We conclude with a performance analysis of slope strategies that do not rely on the NS

model.



13
  In unreported results, we consider various equity, fixed income, and currency risk factors
emanating from the factor zoo literature and confirm that the abnormal S profits are robust to
these alternative factor models. The risk premia considered emanate from i) equity markets
(via the five long-short portfolios of Fama and French, 2015 and the momentum portfolio of
Carhart, 1997), ii) fixed-income markets (via the market, value, momentum, carry and
defensive portfolios of Ilmanen et al., 2021), and iii) currency markets (via the value,
momentum and carry portfolios of Ilmanen et al., 2021). The data observations are from the
websites of Prof. K. French and AQR.
                                                                                             18
5.1. Risk-based explanation

If the risk-based explanation holds, then the S profits reported in Table 4 may be related to

macroeconomic and financial risk factors in such a way that the premium earned in “good”

times (e.g., when economic activity improves) compensates investors for the drawdowns

incurred in “bad” times (e.g., when financial conditions worsen). Following Heath (2019) or

Ilmanen et al. (2021), we study the explanatory power of the following macroeconomic and

financial risk factors: i) term spread (TERM), ii) TED spread (TED), iii) default spread (DEF),

iv) the change in the FED funds rate (ΔFED), v) the 3-month real interest rate (REAL), vi)

innovations in aggregate liquidity of Pastor and Stambaugh (2003) (LIQUID), vii) the change

in industrial production (ΔIP), viii) the Chicago Fed National Activity Index (CFNAI), viii)

inflation (INFL), and ix) the Uncertainty Index (UNC) of Bekaert et al. (2022).14

Table 7, Panel A reports the slope coefficients obtained from a contemporaneous time-series

regression of the long-short S excess returns net of transaction costs onto these risk factors

over the period from January 1992 to June 2019. We note a propensity for the long-short S

profits to be positively related with TERM and REAL. This finding, consistent with rational

pricing, indicates that the risk premium identified in Table 4 is earned mainly in periods of

economic expansion (when the yield curve slopes upward, and interest rates are relatively




14
  TERM is the yield difference between 10-year T-bonds and 3-month T-bills. TED is the
difference between 3-month U.S. LIBOR rate and 3-month U.S. T-bill rate. DEF is the yield
difference between Moody's seasoned Baa corporate bonds and 10-year constant-maturity T-
bonds. REAL is the difference between the 3-month US T-bill rate and expected inflation (3-
year moving average of year-on-year change in US consumer price index). ΔIP is the global
year-on-year change in industrial production measured as an equal-weighted average of the
U.S., U.K., Japan, and Eurozone series. INFL is the year-on-year percentage change in G7
consumer price index (all items). All variables have been tested to ensure stationarity in the
time series. The observations are from Refinitiv Datastream and from the websites of the
Federal Reserve Bank of St Louis, Prof. R. Stambaugh and Prof. N. Xu.
                                                                                           19
higher) and that it represents compensation for the drawdowns incurred during economic

slowdowns (when the yield curve slopes downward, and interest rates are relatively lower).15

                                  [Insert Table 7 around here]

5.2. Sentiment-based mispricing

It has long been argued in the literature that sentiment-driven investors may cause prices to

deviate from their fundamental values. If rational traders fail to arbitrage away these

sentiment effects, then mispricing may persist and may explain the S profits observed in

Tables 4 and 6. To test this consideration, we follow Stambaugh et al. (2012) by regressing

the excess returns of the S strategy net of transaction costs onto the orthogonalized sentiment

index of Baker and Wurgler (2006). 16 We also measure the mean excess returns of the S

strategy, as well as its alpha (relative to the three-factor model of Bakshi et al., 2019), in high

and low sentiment periods, where the periods are defined relative to the sentiment index full-

sample average.

Table 7, Panel B shows that the performance of the long-short S portfolio improves with

sentiment. For example, the results of the time-series regression indicate a significant positive

relationship between the long-short S profits and investor sentiment (                =0.0011, t-

statistic of 2.56). We also note that the mean excess return of the long-short S portfolio is



15
   In unreported results, we considered the macro uncertainty index (TMU) of Jurado et al.
(2015) in place of UNC and found consistent results. Furthermore, we note that, while the S
strategy outperforms in high REAL episodes, the REAL variable is poor at explaining the
variation in the S returns beyond the other macro factors considered (i.e., 2-3% increase in
adjusted- R2s).
16
   The choice of the orthogonalized index is governed by the fact that it is presumably free
from considerations relating to macroeconomic and financial conditions and thus, it is a
cleaner measure of investor psychology than the original index. Unreported results indicate
that the conclusion on the presence of a sentiment effect holds irrespective of the sentiment
index considered and is unaltered by the consideration of the one-month lagged, in place of
the contemporaneous, value of the sentiment index. The observations for the sentiment
indexes are from the website of Prof. J. Wurgler.
                                                                                           20
stronger during high than in low sentiment periods, with the difference being statistically

significant (t-statistic of 3.58). Likewise, the alpha of the long-short S portfolio in high

sentiment periods (at 2.61%) is higher than the alpha in low sentiment periods (at 0.5%), with

the difference being statistically significant (p-value of 0.00). Overall, optimistic sentiment is

a key driver of the long-short profits of the S portfolio.

Following Stambaugh et al. (2012), we also analyze the performance of the short leg of the S

portfolio in periods of high versus low sentiment. The results indicate lower excess returns of

the short leg when sentiment is high. For example, the relation between the short-leg excess

returns and sentiment is negative (         =-0.0012, t-statistic of -1.86) and the constituents of

the short leg are more overpriced (at -3.24%) when sentiment is high than when sentiment is

low (at -0.61%) with the difference in mean excess returns in high versus low sentiment

periods that is statistically significant (t-statistic of -3.60). Similar inference can be drawn

from the high versus low sentiment alphas. This suggests that the sentiment effect observed

above for the long-short S portfolio reflects the reluctance of traders to take short positions

(due to limited knowledge or behavioral biases), in periods when assets tend to appreciate;

namely, in high sentiment periods. As a result, the spreads included in the short leg of the S

portfolio tend to be particularly overpriced. Finally, we note mixed evidence regarding the

impact of investor sentiment on the profits of the long leg. Indeed, the results show that the

profits in the long leg are positively related with sentiment (        =0.0011, t-statistic of 2.27)

but we note no statistical difference between the mean excess returns (alphas) of the long

portfolio in high versus low sentiment periods.

These conclusions are consistent with our earlier results of Table 4 that show the performance

of the long-short S portfolio is more driven by the overpricing of the spreads in the short leg

than by the underpricing of the spreads in the long leg. Taking this evidence together, it

appears that sentiment and the reluctance of traders to take short positions drive the
                                                                                                21
overpricing of the short leg and provide a partial explanation for the observed profits of the S

portfolio.

We further explore the role of sentiment by relating the profits of the S strategy to investor

psychology. For example, Birru (2018) points towards investors’ pessimism on Mondays and

optimism on Fridays. If sentiment and investor psychology play a role in commodity futures,

one expects worse performance of the long leg on Mondays and better performance on

Fridays and vice versa for the short leg. Table 7, Panel C presents these results which

corroborate this hypothesis. For example, the performance of the long leg net of transaction

costs on Mondays (at -3.02% per year, t-statistic of -3.37) is more than 7 percentage points

lower than that obtained on Fridays (at 4.12% a year, t-statistic of 4.88); and vice versa, the

losses on Mondays on the short leg (at -4.93% a year, t-statistic of -6.11) are over 6

percentage points lower than the gains on Fridays (at 1.43% a year, t-statistic of 2.01). This

result validates the role of investor psychology as an explanation for the S profits. Taken

together, Sections 5.1 and 5.2 demonstrate that the performance of the S strategy derives from

both risk-based and behavioral determinants.

5.3. Timing the slope factor

This section employs factor timing to capture the predictable variation (if any) in the S factor

as an investment strategy. If the NS slope betas (      in Equation (1)) are indicative of time-

varying excess returns, we can expect a positive relationship between the dispersion in the NS

slope betas and forthcoming portfolio returns. As an initial evaluation of the potential gains

from timing, we estimate the following regression:




where        is the excess return of the long-short S strategy at time t+1,        is the cross-

sectional standard deviation of      at time t, and      is an error term. Over the period from

                                                                                             22
January 1992 to June 2019, the t-statistic for the hypothesis             in Equation (4) equals 3.37.

Thus, the wider the dispersion in the estimated NS slopes, the better the performance of the S

strategy one day ahead.

Bearing this result in mind, we time the allocation to the S strategy in such a way that

exposure increases with the dispersion in the NS slopes. More precisely, the excess return of

the timed S portfolio at the end of day t+1,        , is calculated as:




where                            is the cross-sectional standard deviation in the estimated NS

slopes as averaged over the                           days preceding the timing decision taken at

day t, c is a scaling factor that ensures that the original and timed S strategies have the same

volatility, and       is the excess return of the original S portfolio at the end of day t+1.

Essentially, Equation (5) posits that wider spreads in the NS slopes across commodities as

estimated over the     days preceding time t indicate better performance of the S strategy

expected at time t+1 and thus, higher exposure to the S strategy at time t (namely,                 .

Vice versa, smaller spreads in the NS slopes indicate lower expected performance of, and thus

lower exposure to, the S strategy (i.e.,       ).


The left Y-axis of Figure 3 plots on the left-hand side the future value of $1 invested in the

original S strategy and its timed counterpart (d=5) over the period January 1992 to June 2019.

The right Y-axis on the right-hand side depicts the leverage of the timed strategy. Given the

volatility target, the timed S strategy does not require excessive leverage (max. < 2.5x). Table

8 reports summary statistics for the timed S strategy, as well as estimated parameters of a

spanning regression of        onto     . The results indicate that the timed S strategy is not


                                                                                                  23
spanned by the original S strategy. Thus, the dispersion of NS slope betas enhances the

performance of the original S strategy.

                            [Insert Figure 3 and Table 8 around here]

5.4. Subsample and sector analyses

We now examine the performance of the S strategy over various subsamples: before and after

the introduction of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act (CFMA) in December 200017

and since the depths of the global financial crisis (GFC) dated March 2009. Figure 4, Panel A

presents the Sharpe ratios of the S strategy for these different subsample periods, as well as

those of the traditional commodity portfolios with positive mean excess returns (in Table 2).

We note a tendency for the S strategy to perform strongly in the pre-CFMA sub-period and to

show a weaker performance thereafter. This pattern is pervasive across all strategies except

for Curve-M.

We compare the net Sharpe ratios and net alphas of the S portfolio pre- and post-event

(namely, pre- and post-financialization and pre- and post-GFC). The pre-event net Sharpe

ratios (1.74 for financialization and 1.47 for GFC) are statistically different from the post-

event net Sharpe ratios (0.71 and 0.20, respectively) at the 1% level. Likewise, the annualized

pre-event net alphas (2.16% and 1.90%, respectively) are statistically different from the

annualized post-event net alphas (0.87% and 0.23%, respectively). These results, alongside

those illustrated in Figure 4, indicate a significant deterioration of the net performance of the

S strategy in latter periods.




17
   The CFMA legislation led to the continued deregulation of OTC derivatives which
increased their use in hedging and speculation in commodity markets. This effect caused a
growth in trading volume and the financialization of commodity futures markets (Tang and
Xiong, 2012).
                                                                                              24
The post-2001 sample includes the global financial crisis; therefore, we cannot attribute the

observed decline in performance solely to the CFMA event. The decrease in performance may

also be the result of crowding (Kang et al., 2021), market efficiency gains driven by

algorithmic trading (Rösch et al., 2017) or the reduction of arbitrage limits in the latter period.

It is conceivable that liquidity constraints and/or capacity constraints leading up to the

introduction of the CFMA led to persistent mispricing of the futures curve that were

subsequently arbitraged away as trading became cheaper and easier post-2001, or as liquidity

rose and as frictions and funding costs became relatively lower. 18 This explanation is

consistent with earlier evidence showing that the performance of the S strategy declines when

the short-term rate is lower (see Table 7, Panel A).

                                   [Insert Figure 4 around here]

As a further robustness check, we study the performance of the S strategy per sector (energy,

grains, industrials, meats, metals, oilseeds, and softs). Figure 4, Panel B reports the Sharpe

ratios of the sector-specific and overall portfolios, as well as t-statistics for the significance of

the mean excess returns in parentheses. Except for meats, all sector-specific S strategies

perform well with Sharpe ratios ranging from 0.36 (metals) to 1.24 (oilseeds) and

corresponding t-statistics ranging from 2.11 to 6.44. The Sharpe ratio of the overall S portfolio

is 1.41 and the average Sharpe ratio across sectors equals 0.60 with the difference

highlighting the benefit of diversification.

5.5. Variation in the modelling of the NS slope signal

This section tests whether the performance of the S strategy is robust to three alternative

designs of the NS parameters. First, we use extended commodity term structures with up to 6


18
   Barroso and Detzel (2021) proxy arbitrage risk using idiosyncratic volatility, and proxy
short-sell impediments using institutional ownership. Unlike the stock market, we refer to
limits-to-arbitrage as the market’s inability to absorb a large amount of capital in the short-
term, i.e., a liquidity or capacity-constraint, rather than a structural impediment.
                                                                                            25
or 12 contracts (in place of the 4 contracts originally considered), then we re-estimate

Equation (1), and implement the S strategy in relation to the front and most distant contracts

available at the time of portfolio formation. The performance of the resulting strategies is

summarized in Table 9, Panel A. Second, we extract the slope signal,      , from the following

seasonally-adjusted NS model (Karstanje et al., 2017)




where       is the seasonality beta of a given commodity at time t,              is the integer

between 1 and 12 that maximizes the R2 of the model at each point in time t, and the other

parameters are as previously defined. Equation (6) is estimated using the term structure of

each commodity up to the 12th contract with the S strategy trading the front and most distant

contracts available at the time of portfolio formation based on the estimated     coefficients.

The performance of the resulting S strategy is reported in Table 9, Panel B with “NINE”

(“ALL”) indicating that the curves of nine (all) commodities are seasonality-adjusted.19 Third,

going back to the original setting of Equation (1) as applied to the four front contracts, we

mitigate the noise in the slope signal by replacing it with its 3 or 5-day moving average (MA)

and we present summary statistics of performance in Table 9, Panel C.

                                 [Insert Table 9 around here]


19
   The nine commodity futures markets are corn, cotton, feeder cattle, gasoline, heating oil,
live cattle, live hogs, soybeans, and wheat. These commodities are selected for their stronger
seasonality characteristics. The      coefficients of the remaining commodities are estimated
from Equation (1).
                                                                                            26
Our conclusion regarding the strong performance of the S strategy is robust to these

alternative specifications of the S signals. For example, the mean excess returns reported in

Table 9 remain positive at the 1% level and, with an average at 1.65%, they are comparable to

the mean excess return of the original S strategy (1.77% in Table 4). The CER (at 1.59% a

year on average in Table 9) is also close to the CER of the original S strategy (at 1.74% in

Table 4). Yet, we note that the longer term structure, a seasonality adjustment or smooth

signals result in a marginal loss in risk-adjusted performance with, for example, Sharpe ratios

that are slightly lower at 1 on average (in Table 9) versus 1.40 for the original S strategy (in

Table 4).

5.6. Overlay strategies

We now examine whether the proposed S strategy can be used to hedge the risk of existing

commodity risk factors and the potential benefits of using it as an overlay to traditional

commodity allocations. We construct portfolios consisting of an equal monthly-rebalanced

investment in S and either one of the seven traditional commodity portfolios presented in

Table 2, Panel B. Results show that, net of reasonable transaction costs, treating S as an

overlay improves the Sharpe ratios of traditional strategies (except for C-MOM) by an

average of 22%.20 Overall, the S strategy adds economic value both as a stand-alone portfolio

and as a complement to traditional commodity portfolios.

5.7. Alternative definitions of the slope signals

Thus far, our modelling of the slope signal relies strictly on the NS model of Equation (1) or

(6). We now determine the slope signal without relying on the NS model and use alternative

slope measures as sorting signals for portfolio construction. Consistent with our NS-based S

strategy, all three alternative strategies considered are based on daily rebalancing, full



20
     In the interest of brevity, these results are not reported, but are available upon request.
                                                                                                   27
collateralization, as well as equal weighting in the construction of the long and short positions.

The first two strategies also assume short-term continuation of recent slope movements, while

the third definition anticipates no change in futures curves from one day to the next.21 Details

of the three alternative slope signals are as follows.

The first alternative slope signal is the day t change in the slope of the term structure of a

given commodity, denoted            , with the slope measured as                         and with

     denoting the futures price at time t of a contract with kth location on the term structure. The

strategy constructs a long slope-spread position (i.e., long the front contract and short the

fourth contract) in the commodities with positive         and short slope-spread positions in the

remaining commodities (i.e., short the front contract and long the fourth contract).

The second alternative slope signal we consider is based on principal component analysis.

Using the first four contracts on a given commodity over a five-day period (                    and

       ), we first extract the second principal component,         , from the covariance matrix of

daily prices, where       is deemed to capture the slope of the futures curve. We then measure

the change in         at time t that we denote             . A positive          indicates a more

backwardated or less contangoed market and, vice versa, a negative                 indicates a less

backwardated or more contangoed market. Bearing in mind our assumption of short-term

continuation of recent slope movements, we take long slope-spread positions in commodities

with positive          and short slope-spread positions in commodities with negative            .


The third alternative slope signal is defined as                        for                  where

     is the day t roll yield of a given commodity. At each portfolio formation time, the strategy



21
  The assumption that the term structure of futures prices will not change from one portfolio
formation date to the next (in our case, from one day to the next) follows the literature on
carry strategies (see, for example, Erb and Harvey, 2006; Gorton and Rouwenhorst, 2006;
Yang, 2013; Szymanowska et al., 2014).
                                                                                          28
excludes the commodities with less than k contracts in their term structure and takes long

(short) positions in front contracts with positive (negative) roll yields.

Table 10 presents summary statistics for the excess returns of these alternative slope strategies

(Panel A) as well as estimated coefficients from spanning regressions of the excess returns of

the NS-based S strategy onto the excess returns of the alternative slope strategies (Panel B).

We note that all slope strategies are profitable at the 5% level or better, which confirms that

the slope is important in the pricing of commodity futures contracts. We also observe that the

NS-S strategy presents positive alphas at the 1% level relative to the alternative slope

strategies, which serves to confirm the overall robustness of our approach.

                                  [Insert Table 10 around here]


6.   Conclusions

This paper employs the Nelson-Siegel model to investigate the pricing of commodity futures

contracts along their term structure. We first note that the model accurately captures the shape

of commodity futures curves through the three parameters of level, slope and curvature. We

then exploit the information embedded in these parameters within a set of novel out-of-sample

investment strategies that assume continuation one day-ahead of recent parallel shifts (L

strategy), slope movements (S strategy), or butterfly oscillations (C strategy). The trades are

implemented on a cross section of 21 commodities by constructing long and short positions in

front contracts, slope spreads or butterfly spreads.

The proposed slope strategy generates superior excess returns that survive reasonable

transaction costs and are uncorrelated to a variety of traditional commodity risk factors.

Exploring the sources of the observed performance, we note that the profits of the slope

strategy relate both to risk (since they compensate investors for the losses incurred during

economic slowdowns) and to sentiment-based mispricing (i.e., due to the reluctance of traders

                                                                                              29
to construct short positions in high sentiment periods). Further tests indicate that the

performance of the slope strategy remains robust and persistent under alternative

specifications of the Nelson-Siegel model and can be enhanced through timing. Yet,

performance is weaker in the recent past, which we attribute to recent technological advances,

strategy crowding and/or an accommodative monetary policy environment.

Our article is the first to employ the NS model to design novel investment strategies in

commodity futures markets. We hope this research motivates further investigation of how

fixed income term structure models can be used to enhance our understanding of the pricing

and management of futures contracts along their entire curves and across asset classes.




                                                                                           30
Acknowledgements

We thank Geert Bekaert (editor), the associate editor, an anonymous referee, as well as

Andrew Kaleel, Mathew Kaleel, Bin Li, Mingyi Li, Ming Xu and seminar participants at

Griffith University for insightful comments and suggestions.




                                                                                    31
References

Asness, C. S., Moskowitz, T. J., Pedersen, L. H., 2013. Value and momentum
    everywhere. The Journal of Finance, 68 (3), 929-985.
Baker, M., Wurgler, J., 2006. Investor sentiment and the cross-section of stock returns. The
    Journal of Finance, 61 (4), 1645–1680.
Bakshi, G., Gao, X., Rossi, A. G., 2019. Understanding the sources of risk underlying the
    cross section of commodity returns. Management Science, 65 (2), 619-641.
Barroso, P., Detzel, A., 2021. Do limits to arbitrage explain the benefits of volatility-managed
    portfolios?. Journal of Financial Economics, 140 (3), 744-767.
Basu, D., Miffre, J., 2013. Capturing the risk premium of commodity futures: The role of
    hedging pressure. Journal of Banking and Finance, 37 (7), 2652-2664.
Bekaert, G., Engstrom, E. C., Xu, N. R., 2022. The time variation in risk appetite and
    uncertainty. Management Science, 68 (6), 3975-4004.
Birru, J., 2018. Day of the week and the cross-section of returns. Journal of Financial
    Economics, 130 (1), 182-214.
Boons, M., Prado, M. P., 2019. Basis-Momentum. The Journal of Finance, 74 (1), 239-279.
Carhart, M. M., 1997. On persistence in mutual fund performance. The Journal of Finance, 52
    (1), 57–82.
Casassus, J., Collin-Dufresne, P., 2005. Stochastic convenience yield implied from
    commodity futures and interest rates. The Journal of Finance, 60 (5), 2283-2331.
Deaton, A., Laroque, G., 1992. On the behaviour of commodity prices. Review of Economic
    Studies, 59 (1), 1-23.
Diebold, F. X., Li, C., 2006. Forecasting the term structure of government bond yields.
    Journal of Econometrics, 130 (2), 337-364.
Dunis, C., Laws, J., Evans, B., 2006. Trading futures spreads: An application of correlation
    and threshold filters. Applied Financial Economics, 16 (12), 903-914.
Erb, C. B., Harvey, C. R., 2006. The strategic and tactical value of commodity futures.
    Financial Analysts Journal, 62 (2), 69-97.
Fama, E.F., French, K.R., 2015. A five-factor asset pricing model. Journal of Financial
    Economics, 116 (1), 1–22.
Fernandez-Perez, A., Frijns, B., Fuertes, A.-M., Miffre, J., 2018. The skewness of commodity
    futures returns. Journal of Banking and Finance, 86, 143-158.
Gao, L., Han, Y., Li, S. Z., Zhou, G., 2018. Market intraday momentum. Journal of Financial
    Economics, 129 (2), 394-414.
Gibson, R., Schwartz, E. S., 1990. Stochastic convenience yield and the pricing of oil
    contingent claims. The Journal of Finance, 45 (3), 959-976.
Gorton, G., Rouwenhorst, K. G., 2006. Facts and fantasies about commodity futures.
    Financial Analysts Journal, 62 (2), 47-68.
Gorton, G. B., Hayashi, F., Rouwenhorst, K. G., 2013. The fundamentals of commodity
    futures returns. Review of Finance, 17 (1), 35-105.
GrØnborg, N. S., Lunde, A., 2016. Analyzing oil futures with a dynamic Nelson‐Siegel
    model. Journal of Futures Markets, 36 (2), 153-173.
Gu, M., Kang, W., Lou, D., Tang, K., 2019. Relative basis and expected returns in commodity
    futures markets. SSRN working paper.


                                                                                             32
Heath, D., 2019. Macroeconomic factors in oil futures markets. Management Science, 65 (9),
    4407-4421.
Heidorn, T., Mokinski, F., Rühl, C., Schmaltz, C., 2015. The impact of fundamental and
    financial traders on the term structure of oil. Energy Economics, 48, 276-287.
Ilmanen, A., Israel, R., Lee, R., Moskowitz, T., Thapar, A., 2021. How do factor premia vary
    over time? A century of evidence. Journal of Investment Management, 19 (4), 15-57.
Jurado, K., Ludvigson, S. C., Ng, S., 2015. Measuring uncertainty. American Economic
    Review, 105 (3), 1177-1216.
Kang, W., Rouwenhorst, K. G., Tang, K., 2020. A tale of two premiums: The role of hedgers
    and speculators in commodity futures markets. The Journal of Finance, 75 (1), 377- 417.
Kang, W., Rouwenhorst, K. G., Tang, K., 2021. Crowding and factor returns. SSRN working
    paper.
Karstanje, D., Van Der Wel, M., van Dijk, D. J., 2017. Common factors in commodity futures
    curves. SSRN working paper.
Koijen, R. S. J., Moskowitz, T. J., Pedersen, L. H., Vrugt, E. B., 2018. Carry. Journal of
    Financial Economics, 127 (2), 197-225.
Locke, P. R., Venkatesh, P., 1997. Futures market transaction costs. Journal of Futures
    Markets, 17 (2), 229-245.
Melamed, L., 1981. The futures market: Liquidity and the technique of spreading. Journal of
    Futures Markets, 1 (3), 405.
Miffre, J., Rallis, G., 2007. Momentum strategies in commodity futures markets. Journal of
    Banking and Finance, 31 (6), 1863-1886.
Moskowitz, T. J., Ooi, Y. H., Pedersen, L. H., 2012. Time series momentum. Journal of
    Financial Economics, 104 (2), 228-250.
Nelson, C. R., Siegel, A. F., 1987. Parsimonious modeling of yield curves. The Journal of
    Business, 60 (4), 473-489.
Newey, W. K., West, K. D., 1987. A simple, positive semi-definite, heteroskedasticity and
    autocorrelation consistent covariance matrix. Econometrica, 55 (3), 703-708.
O’Neill, M., Schmidt, C., Warren, G., 2018. Capacity Analysis for Equity Funds. The Journal
    of Portfolio Management, 44 (5), 36-49.
Paschke, R., Prokopczuk, M., Wese Simen, C., 2020. Curve momentum. Journal of Banking
    and Finance, 113, 105718.
Pastor, L., Stambaugh, R. F., 2003. Liquidity risk and expected stock returns. Journal of
    Political Economy, 111 (3), 642-685.
Rösch, D. M., Subrahmanyam, A., Van Dijk, M. A., 2017. The dynamics of market efficiency.
    Review of Financial Studies, 30 (4), 1151-1187.
Schwartz, E. S., 1997. The stochastic behavior of commodity prices: Implications for
    valuation and hedging. The Journal of Finance, 52 (3), 923-973.
Stambaugh, R. F., Yu, J., Yuan, Y., 2012. The short of it: Investor sentiment and
    anomalies. Journal of Financial Economics, 104 (2), 288-302.
Szakmary, A. C., Shen, Q., Sharma, S. C., 2010. Trend-following trading strategies in
    commodity futures: A re-examination. Journal of Banking and Finance, 34 (2), 409-426.
Szymanowska, M., de Roon, F. A., Nijman, T. E., van den Goorbergh, R. W. J., 2014. An
    anatomy of commodity futures risk premia. The Journal of Finance, 69 (1), 453-482.
Tang, K., Xiong, W., 2012. Index investment and the financialization of commodities.
    Financial Analysts Journal, 68 (5), 54-74.

                                                                                        33
Yang, F., 2013. Investment shocks and the commodity basis spread. Journal of Financial
    Economics, 110 (1), 164-184.
Zaremba, A., Umutlu, M., Maydybura, A., 2020. Where have the profits gone? Market
    efficiency and the disappearing equity anomalies in country and industry returns. Journal
    of Banking and Finance, 121, 105966.




                                                                                          34
Appendix A. Factor Construction


Factor                  Commodity-specific signals     Definition at the time of portfolio formation t                      References

Momentum                                                denotes the time t monthly excess return of the      Erb and Harvey (2006); Miffre and Rallis
(MOM)                                                front contract.                                         (2007); Bakshi et al. (2019)

Carry                                                   and     denote the prices of the nearest and 2nd     Erb and Harvey (2006); Gorton and
                                                     nearest contract at time t, respectively.               Rouwenhorst (2006); Szymanowska et al.
(Carry)
                                                                                                             (2014); Yang (2013); Bakshi et al. (2019)
                                                        and correspond to the week t short and long          Basu and Miffre (2013); Kang et al.
Hedging Pressure                                     positions of a given commodity as held by               (2020)
(HP)                                                 commercial traders in the CFTC report,
                                                     respectively.
                                                         denotes the daily excess return of the front        Fernandez-Perez et al. (2018)
                                                     contract at time d,       and     denote mean and
Skewness                                             standard deviation of daily excess returns as
(SKEW)                                               measured at time t using daily data over the past
                                                     year and      is the number of days in the past one
                                                     year.
Basis-momentum                                          ( ) represents the time t monthly excess return      Boons and Prado (2019)
(BMOM)                                               of the front (second-nearest) contract.

                                                           denotes the time t price of the mth nearest       Gu et al. (2019)
Relative basis                                       contract,     represents the time to maturity of the
(RB)                                                 mth nearest contract expressed in number of days at
                                                     time t.
                                                             and denote the day t dollar volume and          Szymanowska et al. (2014)
Liquidity
                                                     excess return of the front contract, respectively.
(LIQ)
                                                     is the number of days in the past 2 months.
Curve-momentum                                            represents the excess return of the mth contract   Paschke et al. (2020)
(Curve-M)                                            at time t.




                                                                                                                                                     35
Table 1. Summary Statistics of Commodity Excess Returns
The table reports summary statistics for the excess returns of individual commodity futures categorized into seven sectors (Panel A) and cross
section (Panel B). Mean and SD are the annualized mean and annualized standard deviation of excess returns, respectively. M is the location of the
contract on the term structure. The long slope spread (Spread) is defined as a long position in the front and a short position in the 4th contract, while
the long butterfly spread (Butterfly) is constructed with two long positions in the 2nd contract, one short position in the front contract and one short
position in the 4th contract. The last column reports the average daily ratio of the cumulative open interest of the first 4 contracts (COI) to the total
open interest of the entire curve (TOI). Numbers in bold format indicate statistical significance at the 10% level or above. t-statistics in parentheses
test the significance of the mean. The last two rows present the percentages of positive (negative) mean returns at the 10% level. The sample
covers the period from January 1992 to June 2019.
Sector    Commodity                 M=1                       M=2                          M=3                          M=4                         Spread                      Butterfly             COI/TOI
                                Mean         SD           Mean            SD           Mean            SD           Mean            SD           Mean            SD           Mean            SD

Panel A: Individual commodity summary statistics
Energy      Crude oil      0.0145 (1.15) 0.3292       0.0341    (1.46)   0.3114    0.0446    (1.64)   0.2971    0.0511    (1.78)   0.2859   -0.0243   (-1.45)   0.0744    0.0028    (0.62)   0.0290   44.03%
            Gasoline       0.0724 (2.08) 0.3208       0.0684    (2.03)   0.2968    0.0696    (2.10)   0.2818    0.0726    (2.20)   0.2720    0.0087    (0.70)   0.0908   -0.0075   (-0.90)   0.0396   58.03%
            Heating oil    0.0264 (1.28) 0.3056       0.0303    (1.33)   0.2890    0.0358    (1.43)   0.2763    0.0430    (1.58)   0.2666   -0.0100   (-0.55)   0.0698   -0.0102   (-1.82)   0.0321   52.67%
Grains      Corn          -0.0751 (-0.91) 0.2483     -0.0616   (-0.69)   0.2405   -0.0415   (-0.33)   0.2307   -0.0327   (-0.20)   0.2203   -0.0393   (-2.29)   0.0819   -0.0153   (-0.94)   0.0715   87.02%
            Oats          -0.0096 (0.62) 0.3067      -0.0247    (0.23)   0.2720   -0.0283    (0.06)   0.2496   -0.0264    (0.03)   0.2348    0.0187    (1.01)   0.1871   -0.0284   (-0.58)   0.1665   95.79%
            Rough rice    -0.1083 (-1.64) 0.2378     -0.0777   (-1.16)   0.2212   -0.0579   (-0.85)   0.2066   -0.0358   (-0.42)   0.1947   -0.0762   (-3.06)   0.1194   -0.0197   (-0.61)   0.1233   96.44%
            Wheat         -0.1057 (-1.22) 0.2834     -0.0808   (-0.89)   0.2665   -0.0506   (-0.39)   0.2521   -0.0385   (-0.24)   0.2370   -0.0610   (-2.72)   0.1063   -0.0183   (-0.99)   0.0862   93.49%
Industrials Cotton        -0.0385 (-0.09) 0.2597     -0.0376   (-0.21)   0.2360   -0.0189    (0.12)   0.2193   -0.0204    (0.01)   0.2048   -0.0148   (-0.22)   0.1334   -0.0218   (-0.65)   0.1255   89.31%
            Lumber        -0.0855 (-0.70) 0.2889     -0.0555   (-0.40)   0.2589   -0.0389   (-0.27)   0.2294   -0.0148    (0.17)   0.2101   -0.0684   (-1.41)   0.1947   -0.0236   (-0.21)   0.1916   96.41%
Meats       Feeder cattle  0.0160 (0.95) 0.1423       0.0102    (0.74)   0.1396    0.0272    (1.43)   0.1322    0.0350    (1.80)   0.1247   -0.0181   (-1.58)   0.0532   -0.0283   (-2.81)   0.0575   86.04%
            Live cattle    0.0060 (0.61) 0.1461       0.0199    (1.18)   0.1304    0.0142    (1.01)   0.1135    0.0184    (1.29)   0.1038   -0.0106   (-0.44)   0.0838    0.0133    (1.22)   0.0779   91.56%
            Live hogs     -0.0495 (-0.39) 0.2441     -0.0241    (0.01)   0.2219    0.0113    (0.81)   0.1941    0.0202    (1.08)   0.1749   -0.0698   (-1.50)   0.1720   -0.0297   (-0.52)   0.1719   85.26%
Metals      Copper         0.0437 (1.64) 0.2588       0.0424    (1.62)   0.2569    0.0467    (1.71)   0.2534    0.0511    (1.81)   0.2500   -0.0060   (-0.89)   0.0341   -0.0093   (-2.09)   0.0271   73.48%
            Gold           0.0232 (1.19) 0.1600       0.0240    (1.21)   0.1598    0.0242    (1.22)   0.1598    0.0245    (1.23)   0.1596   -0.0010   (-0.89)   0.0062    0.0006    (0.73)   0.0104   82.13%
            Silver         0.0174 (1.10) 0.2845       0.0177    (1.11)   0.2835    0.0219    (1.19)   0.2824    0.0215    (1.18)   0.2813   -0.0053   (-1.97)   0.0145   -0.0020   (-1.21)   0.0134   86.42%
Oilseeds Soybean meal      0.1015 (2.68) 0.2468       0.0708    (2.15)   0.2393    0.0652    (2.05)   0.2348    0.0618    (2.00)   0.2311    0.0383    (2.05)   0.1005   -0.0243   (-1.75)   0.0739   78.45%
            Soybean oil   -0.0331 (-0.21) 0.2205     -0.0322   (-0.20)   0.2174   -0.0191    (0.09)   0.2137   -0.0111    (0.27)   0.2104   -0.0213   (-2.51)   0.0534   -0.0205   (-3.47)   0.0478   79.66%
            Soybeans       0.0405 (1.53) 0.2218       0.0287    (1.25)   0.2177    0.0342    (1.39)   0.2149    0.0365    (1.46)   0.2094    0.0040    (0.48)   0.0725   -0.0214   (-1.85)   0.0612   80.99%
Softs       Cocoa         -0.0116 (0.56) 0.2932      -0.0292    (0.18)   0.2779   -0.0230    (0.25)   0.2677   -0.0210    (0.26)   0.2606    0.0149    (1.34)   0.0709   -0.0282   (-3.06)   0.0608   80.35%
            Coffee        -0.0572 (0.16) 0.3707      -0.0639   (-0.06)   0.3474   -0.0721   (-0.31)   0.3258   -0.0606   (-0.19)   0.3151    0.0150    (1.17)   0.1203   -0.0126   (-0.53)   0.1005   92.20%
            Orange juice  -0.0754 (-0.42) 0.3164     -0.0881   (-0.85)   0.2826   -0.0848   (-0.94)   0.2650   -0.0820   (-0.98)   0.2545    0.0147    (1.12)   0.1347   -0.0285   (-1.29)   0.1258   95.51%

Panel B: Cross-section summary statistics
Cross-section             -0.0137           0.2612   -0.0109             0.2460   -0.0019             0.2334   0.0044              0.2239   -0.0149             0.0940   -0.0159             0.0806   82.16%
% of positive mean return     10%                        10%                          14%                         24%                            5%                           0%
% of negative mean return      0%                         0%                           0%                          0%                           24%                          33%




                                                                                                                                                                                                          36
Table 2. Summary Statistics of the Risk Factors
The table reports performance statistics for benchmark portfolios. Panel A focuses on naive
commodity benchmarks that are long-only, daily-rebalanced portfolios of level (LAVG), slope
(SAVG) or curvature (CAVG) positions. Panel B presents the traditional commodity risk premia
(AVG is a long-only monthly-rebalanced portfolio of all commodities, MOM, CARRY, HP, SKEW,
BMOM, RB, LIQ and Curve-M denote long-short portfolios sorted on the characteristics presented in
Appendix A). Mean, Volatility, Downside volatility, and CER (certainty equivalent return) are
annualized. Newey and West (1987) adjusted t-statistics are reported in parentheses. The sample
covers the period from January 1992 to June 2019.
                                Panel A: Naïve
                           commodity benchmarks                      Panel B: Traditional commodity risk factors
                          LAVG SAVG CAVG              AVG     MOM CARRY HP             SKEW BMOM           RB    LIQ Curve-M
Mean                       0.0151 -0.0046 -0.0027     0.0158 0.0264 0.0201 0.0355 0.0283 0.0253 0.0274 0.0008 0.0055
                            (0.97) (-1.71) (-2.99)     (0.89) (2.11) (1.83) (2.92) (2.47) (2.39) (2.44) (0.23) (5.65)
Volatility                 0.1174 0.0136 0.0056       0.1201 0.0700 0.0648 0.0638 0.0655 0.0553 0.0621 0.0640 0.0051
Downside volatility        0.0840 0.0085 0.0037       0.0862 0.0452 0.0407 0.0385 0.0395 0.0300 0.0371 0.0365 0.0029
Sharpe ratio               0.1285 -0.3365 -0.4881     0.1316 0.3774 0.3097 0.5559 0.4320 0.4571 0.4413 0.0129 1.0760
Sortino ratio              0.2643 -0.5262 -0.7346     0.2706 0.6474 0.5501 0.9905 0.7822 0.9030 0.7996 0.0785 1.8621
Omega ratio                1.0299 0.9450 0.9202       1.1251 1.3378 1.2795 1.5585 1.4046 1.4950 1.4164 1.0135 2.2556
Skewness                  -0.2804 0.2577 -0.0458     -0.4644 -0.2523 -0.0923 -0.1148 0.0653 0.3227 0.1492 0.1430 0.0843
Excess kurtosis            5.2614 2.4187 2.6389       3.9242 0.8004 0.7519 -0.0691 0.3920 0.4682 0.8402 0.0206 0.6692
99%VaR (Cornish-Fisher)    0.0245 0.0027 0.0010       0.1000 0.0482 0.0469 0.0435 0.0496 0.0460 0.0503 0.0460 0.0042
% of positive months       0.5107 0.4862 0.4824       0.5167 0.5426 0.5319 0.5912 0.5678 0.5521 0.5167 0.4909 0.6530
Maximum drawdown          -0.4736 -0.1728 -0.0888    -0.4352 -0.2872 -0.2050 -0.1529 -0.1607 -0.2195 -0.1536 -0.3378 -0.0071
CER                       -0.0126 -0.0049 -0.0028    -0.0149 0.0165 0.0116 0.0272 0.0197 0.0192 0.0197 -0.0073 0.0054




                                                                                                                    37
Table 3. Estimates from the Nelson-Siegel Model
The table presents summary statistics for the Nelson and Siegel (1987) parameters from Equation (1).
Mean and SD are the average and standard deviation of the estimated coefficients, respectively. AC(1)
are p-values for the hypothesis of no first-order correlation in the change in beta. The right-hand side
of the table reports the average R² (expressed as a percentage) of various specifications of the NS
model where L, S and C refer to the level, slope, and curvature components, respectively. The sample
covers the period from January 1992 to June 2019.
Commodity                         Level beta              Slope beta          Curvature beta       Decay factor         Average R ² (%)
                              Mean SD        AC(1)     Mean SD AC(1)         Mean SD AC(1)         Mean SD         L+S+C L+S          L+C
Energy      Crude oil         49.63 30.72     0.03     -0.90 7.43    0.00     2.04   8.60   0.00    0.45    0.03    99.70   93.07     24.86
            Gasoline           1.38     1.05  0.98      0.07   0.50  0.23     0.06   2.03   0.83    0.45    0.03    96.20   76.23     31.24
            Heating oil        1.48     0.96  0.01     -0.04 0.22    0.03     0.01   0.53   0.02    0.45    0.03    98.40   83.92     26.02
Grains      Corn               3.62     1.36  0.24     -0.27 0.87    0.38     0.00   2.35   0.72    0.34    0.07    97.00   84.07     42.22
            Oats               2.25     1.00  0.01     -0.12 0.62    0.44    -0.07 1.40     0.31    0.33    0.05    96.30   81.13     43.67
            Rough rice        10.78     4.06  0.00     -0.87 2.03    0.13    -0.18 6.07     0.00    0.37    0.05    94.50   81.33     38.91
            Wheat              4.82     2.30  0.00     -0.38 1.46    0.00     0.19   3.99   0.00    0.33    0.05    96.40   83.31     38.98
Industrials Cotton             0.68     0.18  0.15     -0.01 0.26    0.00     0.04   0.49   0.31    0.33    0.05    95.50   76.43     41.35
            Lumber           321.04 57.57     0.00    -21.85 70.17   0.00    -5.20 144.49   0.00    0.35    0.05    92.50   76.00     43.70
Meats       Feeder cattle      1.10     0.39  0.00      0.00   0.12  0.63    -0.01 0.35     0.00    0.47    0.09    94.00   74.09     40.12
            Live cattle        0.92     0.34  0.34      0.00   0.19  0.20     0.03   0.67   0.30    0.35    0.05    90.40   61.82     41.59
            Live hogs          0.73     0.38  0.08     -0.11 0.32    0.88    -0.04 0.90     0.07    0.48    0.12    92.30   68.20     42.15
Metals      Copper             2.00     1.15  0.00      0.01   0.09  0.00     0.01   0.14   0.00    0.60    0.06    97.10   87.53     31.01
            Gold             776.43 470.59    0.16    -21.68 14.87   0.00   -23.31 16.89    0.00    0.36    0.04    99.90   96.38     33.03
            Silver            12.36     8.61  0.46     -0.36 0.25    0.00    -0.32 0.32     0.00    0.36    0.05    99.20   95.91     35.76
Oilseeds Soybean meal        233.35 87.15     0.02     22.15 64.87   0.00    33.13 153.22   0.04    0.50    0.10    96.90   81.52     39.01
            Soybean oil        0.31     0.12  0.00     -0.01 0.03    0.00     0.00   0.06   0.00    0.46    0.09    98.70   91.49     36.19
            Soybeans           7.91     2.92  0.02      0.36   1.75  0.09     0.78   4.43   0.26    0.44    0.09    96.10   79.64     38.37
Softs       Cocoa           2001.68 662.05    0.00   -114.84 147.50  0.01   -99.96 217.46   0.00    0.31    0.05    98.40   86.50     40.26
            Coffee             1.34     0.45  0.00     -0.13 0.25    0.19    -0.14 0.24     0.00    0.31    0.05    99.40   93.71     39.42
            Orange juice       1.26     0.27  0.00     -0.08 0.18    0.00    -0.12 0.28     0.00    0.36    0.04    97.60   84.55     38.98




                                                                                                                                     38
Table 4. Performance of Nelson-Siegel Portfolios (Summary Statistics)
The table presents performance statistics for the long, short and long-short portfolios based on
the Level (L), Slope (S), and Curvature (C) strategies. Mean, Volatility, Downside volatility, and
CER (certainty equivalent return) are expressed as annualized terms. The mean is geometric.
Newey and West (1987) adjusted t-statistics are reported in parentheses. The sample covers the
period from January 1992 to June 2019.
                                       L                                S                                C
                                                Long-                            Long-                            Long-
                           Long      Short      Short       Long      Short      Short       Long      Short      Short
Mean                       0.0222     0.0214    -0.0019     0.0160    -0.0196     0.0177     0.0059    -0.0078     0.0068
                            (1.26)     (1.17)     (0.01)     (4.13)    (-5.57)     (7.23)     (3.18)    (-5.24)     (5.34)
Volatility                 0.1297     0.1339     0.0630     0.0204     0.0170     0.0125     0.0088     0.0070     0.0055
Downside volatility        0.0881     0.0939     0.0392     0.0134     0.0111     0.0082     0.0064     0.0048     0.0037
Sharpe ratio               0.1716     0.1599    -0.0300     0.7859    -1.1493     1.4135     0.6642    -1.1009     1.2263
Sortino ratio              0.3534     0.3288     0.0024     1.2237    -1.7335     2.1998     0.9286    -1.6064     1.8475
Omega ratio                1.0383     1.0374     1.0009     1.1478     0.8229     1.2689     1.1238     0.8280     1.2272
Skewness                  -0.0963    -0.1189     0.1898     0.2675     0.2095     0.0039    -0.2801    -0.0091    -0.1612
Excess kurtosis            3.3382     3.9847     1.9456     4.8917     2.8921     2.9167     7.8971     2.0969     3.2770
99%VaR (Cornish-Fisher)    0.0262     0.0284     0.0118     0.0049     0.0034     0.0025     0.0022     0.0012     0.0011
% of positive months       0.5163     0.5100     0.4912     0.5905     0.5190     0.5986     0.5291     0.4671     0.5344
Maximum drawdown          -0.4532    -0.4759    -0.3803    -0.0707    -0.4288    -0.0271    -0.0527    -0.1599    -0.0114
CER                       -0.0115    -0.0146    -0.0098     0.0152    -0.0202     0.0174     0.0057    -0.0079     0.0067




                                                                                                                    39
Table 5. Turnover and Transaction Cost Analysis
The table presents the turnover, annualized mean excess return (Mean) and Sharpe ratio (SR) of
various strategies. The portfolios considered are the S and C portfolios, and seven long-short
characteristic-sorted portfolios based on momentum (MOM), carry (CARRY), hedging pressure
(HP), skewness (SKEW), basis-momentum (BMOM), relative basis (RB), and curve-momentum
(Curve-M). TC1, TC2 and TC3 denote the three transaction cost scenarios as detailed in Section
4.3. Newey and West (1987) adjusted t-statistics are reported in parentheses. The sample covers
the period from January 1992 to June 2019.
               Turnover         Gross return                                    Net return
                                                          TC1                     TC2                     TC3
                                Mean         SR        Mean         SR         Mean        SR          Mean        SR

Panel A: NS strategies
S                1.17       0.0177 (7.23) 1.41      0.0131 (5.50) 1.04      0.0055 (2.31) 0.44      0.0055 (2.34) 0.44
C                1.20       0.0068 (5.34) 1.23      0.0024 (2.17) 0.43     -0.0054 (-4.83) -0.97   -0.0055 (-4.98) -0.98

Panel B: Traditional strategies
MOM               1.34       0.0264 (2.11)   0.38   0.0260 (2.08)   0.37   0.0251 (2.01)   0.36    0.0252 (2.03)   0.36
CARRY             1.42       0.0201 (1.83)   0.31   0.0196 (1.80)   0.30   0.0186 (1.72)   0.29    0.0188 (1.73)   0.29
HP                1.25       0.0355 (2.92)   0.56   0.0350 (2.89)   0.55   0.0342 (2.83)   0.54    0.0343 (2.84)   0.54
SKEW              1.33       0.0283 (2.47)   0.43   0.0278 (2.43)   0.42   0.0270 (2.36)   0.41    0.0271 (2.37)   0.41
BMOM              1.32       0.0253 (2.39)   0.46   0.0248 (2.35)   0.45   0.0239 (2.27)   0.43    0.0241 (2.28)   0.44
RB                1.56       0.0274 (2.44)   0.44   0.0268 (2.40)   0.43   0.0258 (2.31)   0.42    0.0259 (2.32)   0.42
Curve-M           1.31       0.0055 (5.65)   1.08   0.0050 (5.18)   0.99   0.0042 (4.29)   0.82    0.0043 (4.41)   0.84




                                                                                                                 40
Table 6. Risk Adjustment and Abnormal Performance of the S and C Strategies
The table presents estimates and goodness-of-fit statistics (Adj-R²) from regressions of the net
excess returns of the S and C strategies on naive commodity benchmarks (Panel A), traditional
commodity benchmarks (Panel B), and all-asset benchmarks (Panel C). LAVG, SAVG and
CAVG are naive long-only, daily-rebalanced portfolios of the level, slope and curvature
positions, respectively. AVG is a long-only, monthly-rebalanced portfolio of all commodities,
MOM, CARRY, HP, SKEW, BMOM, RB, LIQ and Curve-M denote long-short commodity
portfolios sorted on characteristics presented in Appendix A. Alpha is expressed in annualized
terms. All variables are monthly series (or converted to monthly series where applicable).
Newey and West (1987) adjusted t-statistics are reported in parentheses. The sample covers the
period from January 1992 to June 2019.

                                       S                                       C

Panel A: Naive commodity benchmarks
Alpha               0.0139 (4.56)                           0.0028   (2.18)
LAVG                0.0018 (0.28)                           0.0002   (0.05)
SAVG               -0.0008 (-0.01)                          0.0029   (0.11)
CAVG                0.2099 (1.26)                           0.0994   (1.29)
Adj-R ²            -0.35%                                  -0.37%

Panel B: Traditional commodity benchmarks
Alpha                 0.0125 (4.22)     0.0131    (4.13)    0.0022    (1.71)        0.0019    (1.49)
AVG                   0.0023 (0.41)     0.0052    (0.87)    0.0010    (0.36)        0.0007    (0.27)
MOM                   0.0163 (1.32)     0.0177    (1.21)    0.0052    (0.87)        0.0038    (0.54)
CARRY                 0.0074 (0.52)     0.0207    (1.42)   -0.0050   (-0.74)       -0.0078   (-1.03)
HP                                     -0.0081   (-0.65)                            0.0025    (0.32)
SKEW                                   -0.0138   (-0.91)                            0.0187    (3.99)
BMOM                                   -0.0102   (-0.67)                           -0.0068   (-0.89)
RB                                     -0.0085   (-0.68)                            0.0002    (0.03)
LIQ                                    -0.0229   (-1.62)                            0.0018    (0.27)
Curve-M                                 0.0525    (0.30)                           -0.0143   (-0.14)
Adj-R ²               0.18%            -0.09%              -0.59%                   1.58%

Panel C: All-asset benchmarks
Alpha                 0.0102 (3.50)                         0.0020    (1.60)
All-asset value       0.0639 (2.30)                        -0.0039   (-0.33)
All-asset momentum 0.0699 (3.52)                            0.0107    (1.28)
All-asset carry      -0.0144 (-0.64)                        0.0065    (0.67)
Adj-R ²               2.97%                                 0.33%




                                                                                                 41
Table 7. Risk versus Sentiment-Based Mispricing
The table tests whether the performance of the S strategy relates to business cycle risk or
sentiment-based mispricing. Panel A summarizes the results from regressions of the S net
excess returns onto business cycle variables. Panels B and C report the potential role of
sentiment and investor psychology in explaining the net performance of the S strategy. TERM
is the term spread, TED is the TED spread, DEF is the default spread, ∆FED is the change in
the Fed funds rate, REAL is the 3-month real interest rate, LIQUID is the innovation in
aggregate liquidity, ΔIP is the change in industrial production, CFNAI is the Chicago Fed
National Activity Index, INFL is the inflation rate, UNC is the uncertainty index of Bekaert et
al. (2022) multiplied by 100,         is the sensitivity of the portfolio to the orthogonalized
sentiment index of Baker and Wurgler (BW, 2006), High (H) and Low (L) BW are measured
relative to the full-sample mean of the orthogonalized BW index. Mean, Alpha and Daily
performance are annualized. Newey and West (1987) adjusted t-statistics are in parentheses.
p-(H-L) denotes p-value for the null hypothesis: Alpha(High BW) = Alpha(Low BW). The
sample covers the period from January 1992 to June 2019.

                                Long                    Short                 Long - Short

Panel A: Risk-based explanation
TERM                         0.1507     (2.31)      -0.0545     (-1.17)      0.1026      (2.32)
TED                         -0.1938    (-1.90)      -0.1366     (-1.31)     -0.0281     (-0.35)
DEF                          0.0011     (0.86)       0.0030      (2.26)     -0.0010     (-1.08)
∆FED                        -0.0003    (-0.15)       0.0014      (0.79)     -0.0008     (-0.64)
REAL                         0.1339     (3.48)      -0.0087     (-0.27)      0.0713      (2.70)
LIQUID                       0.0047     (0.80)       0.0065      (1.24)     -0.0008     (-0.22)
∆IP                         -0.0039    (-0.41)      -0.0040     (-0.43)      0.0000      (0.00)
CFNAI                       -0.0007    (-0.80)       0.0001      (0.12)     -0.0004     (-0.58)
INFL                         0.0000    (-0.24)       0.0001      (1.23)     -0.0001     (-0.88)
UNC                         -0.0722    (-0.14)      -0.6269     (-1.43)      0.2770      (0.88)

Panel B: Sentiment-based explanation
                            0.0011      (2.27)      -0.0012     (-1.86)      0.0011     (2.56)

Mean       High BW          0.0180      (2.02)      -0.0324     (-5.53)      0.0252     (4.96)
           Low BW           0.0052      (1.03)      -0.0061     (-1.27)      0.0056     (1.76)
           t -(H-L)                     (1.49)                  (-3.60)                 (3.58)

Alpha      High BW          0.0164      (2.00)      -0.0357     (-5.99)      0.0261     (5.08)
           Low BW           0.0041      (0.83)      -0.0059     (-1.23)      0.0050     (1.59)
           p -(H-L)                     (0.20)                   (0.00)                 (0.00)

Panel C: Day-of-the-week performance
Monday                     -0.0302   (-3.37)        -0.0493     (-6.11)      0.0096     (1.78)
Tuesday                    -0.0193   (-2.07)        -0.0323     (-4.52)      0.0066     (1.21)
Wednesday                   0.0173    (1.96)        -0.0074     (-0.99)      0.0123     (2.17)
Thursday                    0.0432    (5.13)        -0.0053     (-0.70)      0.0242     (4.30)
Friday                      0.0412    (4.88)         0.0143      (2.01)      0.0134     (2.70)


                                                                                             42
Table 8. Timing the S Strategy
The table studies the performance of the S strategy that is timed with respect to the cross-
sectional volatility of the slope parameter as averaged over the past d days. Panel A presents
summary statistics for the performance of the timed S strategy, while Panel B reports estimated
coefficients and adjusted goodness-of-fit statistics (Adj-R²) from spanning regressions of the
timed S strategy onto the original S strategy. Mean, Volatility, Downside volatility, CER
(certainty equivalent return) and Alpha are annualized. Newey and West (1987) adjusted t-
statistics are reported in parentheses. The sample covers the period from January 1992 to June
2019.

                             d =3      d =5      d =10     d =15     d =22

Panel A: Summary statistics
Mean                         0.0190    0.0191    0.0191    0.0188    0.0184
                             (7.66)    (7.73)    (7.76)    (7.70)    (7.61)
Volatility                   0.0126    0.0126    0.0126    0.0126    0.0126
Downside volatility          0.0086    0.0085    0.0085    0.0085    0.0086
Sharpe ratio                 1.5079    1.5187    1.5183    1.4958    1.4667
Sortino ratio                2.2465    2.2701    2.2733    2.2350    2.1862
Omega ratio                  1.3141    1.3164    1.3164    1.3109    1.3038
Skewness                     0.3132    0.3417    0.3800    0.3602    0.3401
Excess kurtosis              6.3012    6.7584    7.5972    7.5157    7.3080
99% VaR (Cornish-Fisher)     0.0029    0.0029    0.0031    0.0031    0.0031
% of positive months         0.5434    0.5437    0.5443    0.5448    0.5455
Maximum drawdown            -0.0271   -0.0267   -0.0265   -0.0261   -0.0261
CER                          0.0186    0.0188    0.0188    0.0185    0.0181

Panel B: Spanning regression
Alpha                        0.0027   0.0028    0.0027    0.0024    0.0021
                             (2.77)    (2.89)    (2.96)    (2.71)    (2.40)
Beta                         0.9198   0.9215    0.9249    0.9268    0.9293
                            (45.02)   (45.13)   (45.36)   (45.65)   (46.26)
Adj-R ²                      0.8461   0.8494    0.8557    0.8598    0.8649




                                                                                         43
Table 9. Alternative Specifications of the Nelson-Siegel Model
The table reports summary statistics for the performance of the S strategy based on alternative
specifications of the NS model. The alternative S strategies are based on longer dated term
structures of up to 6 or 12 contracts in Panel A, on a seasonality-adjusted NS model for nine
(NINE) or all (ALL) commodities in Panel B, or on smoother sorting signals using a 3- or 5-day
moving average (MA) in Panel C. Mean, Volatility, Downside volatility, and CER (certainty
equivalent return) are annualized. Newey and West (1987) adjusted t-statistics are reported in
parentheses. The sample covers the period from January 1992 to June 2019.

                            Panel A: Longer term      Panel B: Seasonality     Panel C: Smooth
                                   structure               adjustment               signals
                           6 contracts 12 contracts     NINE        ALL       MA=3         MA=5
Mean                         0.0181        0.0184      0.0188     0.0197      0.0121       0.0117
                              (6.18)        (4.66)     (4.77)      (5.27)     (4.92)       (4.70)
Volatility                   0.0152        0.0192      0.0193     0.0194      0.0127       0.0128
Downside volatility          0.0097        0.0122      0.0123     0.0127      0.0082       0.0082
Sharpe ratio                 1.1909        0.9578      0.9737     1.0148      0.9538       0.9152
Sortino ratio                1.8896        1.5360      1.5544     1.5733      1.4884       1.4458
Omega ratio                  1.2178        1.1766      1.1801     1.1883      1.1738       1.1639
Skewness                     0.0350        0.3365      0.2932     0.1162      0.0730       0.0512
Excess kurtosis              2.8280        5.4492      5.5393     6.0164      2.5694       2.4379
99% VaR (Cornish-Fisher)     0.0030        0.0048      0.0048     0.0048      0.0025       0.0024
% of positive months         0.5322        0.5221      0.5280     0.5276      0.5220       0.5216
Maximum drawdown             -0.0333       -0.0510    -0.0626     -0.0587    -0.0567      -0.0514
CER                          0.0176        0.0177      0.0181     0.0189      0.0117       0.0114




                                                                                               44
Table 10. Performance of Alternative Slope Strategies
The table studies the performance of slope strategies that do not rely on Nelson and Siegel (1987)
to model the slope signal.      is the daily change in the slope                  at time t,   is the
futures contract price at time t with location k on the term structure,         is the change in the
second principal component at time t, and           is the roll yield at time t. Panel A presents
performance statistics for the excess returns of these alternative slope strategies. Panel B reports
estimated coefficients and adjusted goodness-of-fit statistics (Adj-R²) from spanning regressions
of the excess returns of the NS-based S strategy onto the excess returns of these alternative slope
strategies. Mean, Volatility, Downside volatility, CER (certainty equivalent return) and Alpha
are annualized. Newey and West (1987) adjusted t-statistics are reported in parentheses. The
sample covers the period from January 1992 to June 2019.


                                                 k =2      k =3      k =6      k =12

Panel A: Summary statistics
Mean                        0.0154    0.0074    0.0306    0.0242    0.0309    0.0365
                             (6.52)    (3.13)    (2.79)    (2.25)    (2.74)    (2.05)
Volatility                  0.0118    0.0121    0.0605    0.0603    0.0613    0.1087
Downside volatility         0.0076    0.0077    0.0397    0.0383    0.0392    0.0787
Sharpe ratio                1.3051    0.6091    0.5063    0.4011    0.5044    0.3359
Sortino ratio               2.0485    0.9756    0.8304    0.6875    0.8500    0.5511
Omega ratio                 1.2423    1.1056    1.0898    1.0714    1.0899    1.0675
Skewness                    0.0588    0.1399    -0.1554   0.0276    -0.0773   -0.3675
Excess kurtosis             3.1473    2.9624    1.1854    1.2842    1.1767    4.4238
99% VaR (Cornish-Fisher)    0.0023    0.0025    0.0105    0.0100    0.0104    0.0248
% of positive months        0.6364    0.6012    0.5858    0.5764    0.5854    0.5928
Maximum drawdown            -0.0268   -0.0411   -0.1391   -0.1545   -0.1401   -0.2455
CER                         0.0151    0.0071    0.0233    0.0169    0.0234    0.0127

Panel B: Spanning regression
Alpha                        0.009    0.018      0.018     0.018    0.018     0.018
                             (4.55)   (7.33)    (7.30)    (7.35)    (7.31)    (7.31)
Beta                         0.626    0.069      0.000    -0.003    0.000     0.000
                            (33.34)   (3.56)    (-0.05)   (-0.79)   (0.07)    (0.12)
Adj-R ²                     35.25%    0.45%     0.00%     0.01%     0.00%     0.00%




                                                                                              45
Figure 1. Liquidity along the Curve
This figure illustrates the percentage of open interest (OI) of the mth nearest contract and
cumulative open interest (COI) of the nearest m (m=1, 2, …12) contract(s) relative to the total
open interest of the curve.
                                                       50%                                                                 100%




   Percentage of the mth (m = 1, 2,...12) contract's
                                                       45%                                                                 90%

                                                       40%                                                                 80%




                                                                                                                                  Cumulative open interest
                                                       35%                                                                 70%

                                                       30%                                                                 60%

                                                       25%                                                                 50%




         open interest to total open interest
                                                       20%                                                                 40%

                                                       15%                                                                 30%

                                                       10%                                                                 20%

                                                       5%                                                                  10%

                                                       0%                                                                  0%
                                                             1   2   3   4   5     6    7      8        9   10   11   12

                                                                             OI (LHS)       COI (RHS)




                                                                                                                                                             46
Figure 2. Nelson-Siegel Parameters
This figure illustrates the level betas and slope betas estimated from the NS model as well as the front futures prices (P1) of four commodities.
                                                                                            Crude Oil                                                                                                                                             Feeder Cattle
                                                    160                                                                                   30                                                                  3                                                                                    0,8




    Front-month contract price & Level beta                                                                                                                         Front-month contract price & Level beta
                                                    120                                                                                   15                                                                  2                                                                                    0,4




                                                                                                                                                Slope beta                                                                                                                                                 Slope beta
                                                    80                                                                                    0                                                                   2                                                                                    0



                                                    40                                                                                    -15                                                                 1                                                                                    -0,4



                                                     0                                                                                    -30                                                                 1                                                                                    -0,8
                                                      1992       1995    1998    2001    2004      2007   2010      2013    2016   2019                                                                           1992   1995   1998   2001     2004     2007      2010       2013   2016   2019

                                                                                    Level          P1       Slope                                                                                                                             Level           P1          Slope


                                                                                                Gold                                                                                                                                                   Corn
                                                    2000                                                                                  20




          Front-month contract price & Level beta                                                                                                             Front-month contract price & Level beta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                              8

                                                    1550                                                                                  -5
                                                                                                                                                                                                              6                                                                                    3



                                                                                                                                                 Slope beta                                                                                                                                               Slope beta
                                                    1100                                                                                  -30
                                                                                                                                                                                                              4                                                                                    1,5


                                                     650                                                                                  -55                                                                 2                                                                                    0


                                                     200                                                                                  -80                                                                 0                                                                                    -1,5
                                                          1992    1995    1998    2001      2004   2007   2010       2013   2016   2019                                                                       1992       1995   1998   2001     2004    2007       2010      2013    2016   2019

                                                                                    Level           P1       Slope                                                                                                                            Level       P1          Slope


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        47
Figure 3. Leverage and Value of $1 invested in the Timed-S Strategy
This figure plots the value of $1 invested in the original and timed S strategies (left y-axis) as
well as the leverage of the timed S strategy (right y-axis) over the period from January 1992 to
June 2019. The wealth accumulated is based on total return which includes both futures
excess return and collateral return.
3,4                                                                                          2,5x
                S          Timed S (n=5)           Leverage

3,0
                                                                                             2,0x

2,6
                                                                                             1,5x

2,2

                                                                                             1,0x
1,8

                                                                                             0,5x
1,4


1,0                                                                                          0,0x
   1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018




                                                                                               48
Figure 4. Subsample and Sector Analyses
Panel A illustrates the Sharpe ratios of the S portfolio over different subsample periods and of
various commodity portfolios based on momentum (MOM), carry (CARRY), hedging
pressure (HP), skewness (SKEW), basis-momentum (BMOM), relative basis (RB), and curve-
momentum (Curve-M). Panel B presents the Sharpe ratios of sector-specific S strategies and
the respective t-statistics (in parentheses) of the mean excess returns over the period from
January 1992 to June 2019.

Panel A: Subsample analysis




Panel B: Sector analysis




                                                                                             49
