Basis-momentum in the futures curve and volatility risk∗

                       Martijn Boons† and Melissa Porras Prado‡

                                               Abstract

          We propose a new commodity-return predictor related to the slope and curvature
      of the futures curve: basis-momentum. Basis-momentum strongly outperforms bench-
      mark characteristics, such as basis and momentum, in predicting commodity spot and
      term premiums in the time series and cross section. The basis-momentum effect is
      varying within the curve of a single commodity, driven by roll returns, present in cur-
      rency markets, and increasing in volatility – all consistent with maturity-specific price
      pressure. Asset pricing tests show that a parsimonious two-factor model provides an
      excellent cross-sectional fit, with a large premium for exposure to basis-momentum
      that largely represents compensation for volatility risk.
      JEL Classification Codes: G12, G13.
      Keywords: Term structure, commodity futures returns, maturity-specific price pres-
      sure, cross-sectional asset pricing, volatility risk.


  ∗
     We thank Rui Albuquerque, Pedro Barroso, Miguel Ferreira, Vincent van Kervel, Antonio Moreno
(discussant), Andreas Neuhierl, Frans de Roon, Robert Richmond, Pedro Santa Clara, Kenneth Singleton,
and Marta Szymanowska for their helpful comments. We thank seminar participants at Bocconi University,
ECOMFIN 2016 in Paris, EFA 2016 in Oslo, Nova School of Business and Economics, Spanish Finance
Forum 2016 in Madrid, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, and the 2015 Commodity Market Workshop in
Oslo. We are particularly grateful to Marta Szymanowska for providing us with data. An Internet Appendix
with supplementary results is included at the end of this file.
   †
     Nova School of Business and Economics and NETSPAR, E-mail: martijn.boons@novasbe.pt.
   ‡
     Nova School of Business and Economics, E-mail: melissa.prado@novasbe.pt.




                                                    1
1 Introduction

       The financialization of commodity markets since the early 2000s inspired a large amount
of research and spurred the development of a wide range of commodity index investment
vehicles, particularly aimed at institutional investors.1 Initially, institutional investments
were mostly passive, long-only, commodity futures strategies benchmarked to broad com-
mercial indexes, as advocated in Erb and Harvey (2006) and Gorton and Rouwenhorst
(2006). Recently, institutions follow increasingly active strategies that take both long and
short positions and invest in both first-nearby and farther-from-expiring futures contracts.2
For institutional investors and academics alike, it is important to understand what risks are
behind the fundamental drivers of commodity futures return variation in the three most
relevant dimensions: cross section, time series, and maturity.
       Our contribution to the literature is threefold. First, we show that a new signal related to
the slope and curvature of the term structure of futures prices, coined “basis-momentum”,
is the strongest predictor to date of commodity returns in all three dimensions. Second,
we analyze what drives this predictability and argue that basis-momentum follows from
maturity-specific price pressure and is related to volatility. Third, we find that exposure
to a basis-momentum factor is robustly priced in the broadest cross-section of commodity
returns studied to date, and argue that this price represents compensation for volatility risk.
A parsimonious two-factor model, including basis-momentum next to a commodity market
factor, provides an excellent cross-sectional fit relative to recently introduced commodity
factor pricing models.
       Basis-momentum is measured as the difference between momentum in first- and second-
   1
     For work on the financialization: see, for instance, Irwin and Sanders (2011), Stoll and Whaley (2011),
Tang and Xiong (2012), Cheng et al. (2014), Basak and Pavlova (2015), and Sockin and Xiong (2015).
For work on commodity futures pricing in general: see, for instance, Hong and Yogo (2012), Yang (2013),
Szymanowska et al. (2014), and Bakshi et al. (2015).
   2
     Miffre (2013) contains an overview of so-called second- and third-generation commodity indexes. See,
also, wsj.com/new recipes for commodity investing.



                                                     2
nearby futures strategies. A simple decomposition shows that basis-momentum is determined
by average curvature and changes in the slope of the futures curve, which factors are com-
monly studied in the term structure literature. Given that the futures curve is typically
steeper on the short end, it is natural that curvature predicts both nearby returns (from a
first-nearby strategy) and spreading returns (from a strategy that combines a long position
in nearby returns with a short position in second-nearby returns). For instance, average cur-
vature is positive in backwardation, when first-nearby returns should be positive and larger
than second-nearby returns. Likewise, persistence in the steepening (flatterning) of the slope
should predict nearby returns in absolute terms and relative to farther-from-expiring returns.
Cochrane (2011) similarly uses changes in book-to-market and dividend yield, instead of their
more commonly used levels, to predict stock returns.
       We perform three sets of tests and find results that are relevant for empiricists, theorists,
and practitioners alike.3 Our first set of tests serves to find out whether basis-momentum
predicts commodity futures returns. We find that since the inception of commodity futures
trading in 1959, basis-momentum strongly outperforms benchmark characteristics, such as
basis and momentum, in predicting both nearby returns and spreading returns, in both the
time series and cross section.4 As shown in Szymanowska et al. (2014), nearby and spreading
returns, respectively, capture spot and term premiums in commodity futures markets, analo-
gous to the bond market. In the cross section, sorting commodities on basis-momentum leads
to an economically and statistically large average annualized difference between the high and
low portfolio of 18.38% (t-statistic of 6.73) in nearby returns and 4.08% (t-statistic of 6.43)
in spreading returns.5 These differences are robust in double sorts that control for basis,
momentum, and a range of other variables. In pooled regressions that control for systematic
   3
     Our main tests use a commonly studied sample of 21 commodities. The Internet Appendix shows robust
evidence for an extended sample of 32 liquidly traded commodities.
   4
     For empirical evidence on the basis (the difference between the futures and spot price) and momentum,
see, e.g.,Miffre and Rallis (2007), Fuertes et al. (2010), Moskowitz et al. (2012), Yang (2013), Szymanowska
et al. (2014), Koijen et al. (2015), and Bakshi et al. (2015).
   5
     These returns survive estimates of transaction costs based on the evidence in Marshall et al. (2012).


                                                     3
differences across commodities, a standard deviation increase in basis-momentum predicts a
large and significant increase in monthly nearby (spreading) return of 0.85% (0.2%).
       Decomposing basis-momentum, we draw two additional conclusions. First, both aver-
age curvature and changes in the slope contribute to the performance of basis-momentum.
Second, the restriction imposed by basis-momentum – that the difference between momen-
tum measured at different points on the curve outperforms a single momentum measure – is
supported in the data.
       Our second set of tests serves to show that basis-momentum is consistent with maturity-
specific price pressure and links basis-momentum to volatility along the lines of the framework
in Brunnermeier and Pedersen (2009). We decompose futures returns in the part coming
from appreciation of the underlying spot price and the part coming from rolling over the
futures contract. Spot prices are impacted directly by storage and inventory decisions for the
physical commodity (see Kaldor (1939), Working (1949), Deaton et al. (1992), and Gorton
et al. (2013)), whereas roll returns follow from the shape of the futures curve and are mostly
driven by hedger’s price pressure in the futures market (Moskowitz et al. (2012) and Cheng
and Xiong (2014)).6 We find that basis-momentum exclusively predicts roll returns. Fur-
thermore, basis-momentum predicts returns in a pure out-of-sample test for a cross section
of 48 currencies, which can be stored costlessly. Finally, Gorton et al. (2013) argue that the
returns to basis and momentum strategies in commodity markets are a compensation for
bearing risk during times when inventories are low. The fact that basis-momentum predicts
returns controlling for these benchmark characteristics thus reinforces our conclusion that
basis-momentum is unlikely to be driven by storage and inventory dynamics.
       A standard hedger’s price pressure is not likely to explain our results either. The principal
   6
    Cootner’s (1960, 1967) hedging pressure theory (which is a reinterpretation of the theory of normal
backwardation of Keynes (1930)), links futures risk premiums to the net demand of producers and consumers
relative to speculators. Since hedging takes place in futures markets, hedger’s price pressure affects futures
prices and leads to a roll return as each futures price converges to the spot price at expiration. When short
producers (long consumers) dominate the group of hedgers, the futures price is set below (above) the spot
price and roll returns are positive (negative) in a backwardated (contangoed) market.


                                                      4
ideas of Cootner (1960, 1967) say nothing about spreading returns, whereas basis-momentum
is only weakly correlated to hedging pressure measured using the Commitment of Trader
reports of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC).7 Moreover, using returns
of third- and fourth-nearby futures strategies, we show that basis-momentum predictability
varies within the curve of a single commodity and is therefore maturity-specific.
       In conclusion, we present the first evidence in the literature that is consistent with an
extension of the traditional theory of hedger’s price pressure, where maturity-specific price
pressure obtains when the demand of hedgers relative to speculators varies persistently across
contracts of a single commodity.8 We cannot test this hypothesis directly using public CFTC
data, because these data do not contain positions across the futures curve. Thus we leave
for future work the question of what economic determinants are behind the imbalances in
supply and demand of futures contracts that drive basis-momentum. However, there is
clearly important information in the decisions of investors to establish a position at different
locations on the futures curve. First, hedgers are not likely to invest only in the first-nearby
contract when the maturity of their underlying exposure is beyond this contract’s expiration,
which relates to seasonality in production and demand. Further, commodity investors, and
speculators in particular, are known to trade on information extracted from the shape of the
futures curve. A position farther down the futures curve may also be attractive to reduce the
number of roll dates and transaction costs. In fact, spreading positions are traded nowadays
to ensure a continuous exposure at lower transaction costs and execution risk.9 Second,
time-varying volatility is a key determinant for the investment decisions of both hedgers and
   7
     Existing evidence linking commodity returns to CFTC hedging pressure is mixed, however (see de Roon
et al. (2000), Szymanowska et al. (2014), and Gorton et al. (2013)). Because the hedger classification of the
CFTC has significant shortcomings (Cheng et al. (2014) and Dewally et al. (2013)), Acharya et al. (2013)
proxy for hedging pressure using reported hedging policies and measures of default risk of firms in the oil
and gas industry and find evidence consistent with the hedging pressure hypothesis.
   8
     The same line of reasoning applies to currency markets, where price pressures follow from the trades of
domestic hedgers with business or investments in the foreign currency, foreign hedgers with business in the
domestic currency, and currency speculators that clear the market (see, also, Evans and Lyons (2002)).
   9
     Most index providers mandate the existence of tradable spreading positions for a commodity to be
included in an index (Neuhierl and Thompson (2014)).


                                                     5
speculators.10
    Motivated by these observations, we investigate the relation between liquidity (or, price
pressure), volatility, and basis-momentum. Among many others, Brunnermeier and Pedersen
(2009) argue that when liquidity is tight, speculators become reluctant to take on positions
that clear the market and volatility increases. Conversely, liquidity declines when funda-
mental volatility increases. (See Amihud et al. (2005) for an excellent review of the asset
pricing implications of liquidity.) The model of Brunnermeier and Pedersen (2009) has two
implications that we confirm in the context of the basis-momentum strategy. First, nearby
and spreading returns on basis-momentum strategies are increasing in volatility. Here, we
consider both aggregate and average commodity market volatility to ensure that we cap-
ture risk that is relevant for, respectively, diversified commodity investors and traditional
hedgers and specialized speculators. Second, basis-momentum strategies expose investors
to volatility risk, which suggests that basis-momentum is a priced risk factor in commodity
markets.
    Following this suggestion, our third set of tests serves to estimate the price of risk for
exposure to a basis-momentum factor. For these tests we consider as test assets both nearby
and spreading returns of either a range of portfolios (sorted on characteristics and sectors)
or individual commodities. In this way, we contribute to a recent literature that constructs
commodity factor pricing models to explain the cross-section of commodity returns, in the
spirit of Fama and French (1993). In time series spanning regressions, the basis-momentum
(nearby and spreading) factors provide a large and significant alpha relative to the three-
factor models of Szymanowska et al. (2014) and Bakshi et al. (2015), which include commod-
ity market, basis, and momentum factors. Further, cross-sectional asset pricing tests show
that exposure to the basis-momentum nearby factor captures priced risk that is orthogonal
  10
     See the traditional commodity futures pricing models of, e.g., Hirschleifer (1988, 1989) and Bessembinder
and Lemmon (2002), as well as the equilibrium models of Routledge et al. (2000) and Kogan et al. (2009)
that incorporate the downward sloping term structure of futures volatility.




                                                      6
from these benchmark factors at a Sharpe ratio ranging from 0.55 to 0.85 (depending on the
specification).
       In fact, a parsimonious two-factor model, including a commodity market factor and the
basis-momentum factor, provides a cross-sectional fit that is similar to larger three- and
four-factor models. Substituting a non-traded commodity market volatility risk factor for
the basis-momentum factor worsens the cross-sectional fit only slightly. Since the price of
volatility risk is consistent in magnitude with basis-momentum (at a Sharpe ratio of -0.65),
these results support the interpretation that basis-momentum largely represents compensa-
tion for priced volatility risk. These results also imply that volatility risk is priced much
more broadly in commodity markets than was previously known in the literature.11 Evidence
that volatility captures a negative price of risk is abundant in other asset classes (see, e.g.,
Ang et al. (2006) and Adrian and Rosenberg (2008) for stocks; and, Lustig et al. (2011) and
Menkhoff et al. (2012a) for currencies).
       The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we describe the data
and define the variables we use. In Section 3, we ask whether basis-momentum predicts com-
modity futures returns. In Section 4, we analyze how basis-momentum fits into commodity
futures pricing theories and how it is linked to volatility. In Section 5, we run cross-sectional
asset pricing tests. In Section 6, we summarize and conclude.


2 Data and variable definition

2.1 Commodity futures data

       We collect data on exchange-traded, liquid commodity futures contracts from the Com-
modity Research Bureau, supplemented with data from the Futures Industry Institute. A
substantial part of this dataset is identical to Szymanowska et al. (2014), who analyze returns
  11
    Bakshi et al. (2015) and Koijen et al. (2015) focus on the link between commodity basis strategies and
volatility risk.



                                                    7
on 21 commodity futures from 1986 to 2010. We extend this dataset in two directions. First,
our sample starts in July 1959, at the inception of futures trading, and ends in February
2014. Second, we append data on eleven liquidly-traded commodities, among which some
represent large markets, such as natural gas, gas-oil-petroleum, and sugar. Throughout,
results for this larger sample are presented in the Internet Appendix.
   We calculate monthly futures returns using a roll-over strategy. Our tests focus on returns
from investing in first- and second-nearby contracts, because these are the most liquid. We
present additional evidence for the third- and fourth-nearby contracts. For each of these
contracts we calculate excess returns on a fully collateralized position using:

                                                  Tn
                                      Tn        Ft+1
                                     Rf ut,t+1 = Tn − 1,                                  (1)
                                                Ft

        Tn
where Ft+1 is the end of the month price of the nth-nearby futures contract (n = 1, 2, 3, 4),
with expiration in month t+Tn . We follow Szymanowska et al. (2014) and restrict expiration
to be after t + 2. Thus, the nth-nearby strategy rolls into the n + 1th-nearby contract at the
end of month t, if the nth-nearby contract is expiring in month t + 2. This approach avoids
holding contracts close to expiration, when erratic price and volume behavior is commonly
observed. Following recent work on commodities, our interest is in both long-only returns,
where we will refer to RfTut,t+1
                          1
                                 as the nearby return, and long-short returns, where we will
typically refer to RfTut,t+1
                      1
                             − RfTut,t+1
                                  2
                                         as the spreading return. We reverse the definition of
spreading returns compared to Szymanowska et al. (2014) to facilitate interpretation of the
results to come. Table A.1 of the Internet Appendix presents an overview of the commodity
sample.


2.2 A decomposition of nearby and spreading returns

   This subsection briefly summarizes the decomposition in Szymanowska et al. (2014) of
expected futures returns in spot and term premiums, which are the object of our empirical

                                              8
                                                                   Tn
analysis. Let us start from the definition of the futures price, Ft+1 , in terms of the spot price
of the underlying commodity, St , and the log or percentage basis, ytTn :


                                           FtTn = St exp (Tn × ytTn ).                          (2)


The collection FtTn , n = 1, 2, . . ., represents the term structure of commodity futures prices.
For ease of exposition, we assume that Tn = n, such that, for instance, the first-nearby return
can be calculated using the end of the month spot price.12 We continue in logs, denoted by
small letters.
       We decompose the one-period expected log-spot return into the spot premium, πs,t , and
the one-period basis, yt1 :


                                    Et [rs,t+1 ] = Et [st+1 − st ] = πs,t + yt1 .               (3)


It is natural to decompose the spot return into a premium and a component related to
expected price appreciation. One would expect the spot price to increase over the life of the
                                                                         Tn
futures contract if yt1 = ft1 − st > 0. Next, we define a term premium, πy,t , as the deviation
from the expectations hypothesis of the term structure of the basis,

                                                                Tn −1
                                 Tn × ytTn = yt1 + (Tn − 1)Et [yt+1        Tn
                                                                      ] + πy,t .                (4)


       Analogous to the bond market, these premiums can be earned using two common invest-
ment strategies. The expected return from an investment in the first-nearby futures contract
delivers the spot premium:


                         Et [rf1 ut,t+1 ] = Et [st+1 − ft1 ] = Et [st+1 − st − yt1 ] = πs,t .   (5)
  12
       The conclusions can be generalized if this is not the case.




                                                          9
The expected return from spreading strategies, which are long the first-nearby contract
and short a futures contract with a longer maturity, deliver the term premiums. As a
                                                                  T2
representative example, consider the second-nearby term premium, πy,t . The expected return
from a continuous investment in the second-nearby futures contract equals:

                                        T2 −1                                 T2 −1
                 Et [rfTut,t+1
                        2
                               ] = Et [ft+1   − ftT2 ] = Et [(st+1 − st ) + (yt+1   − T2 ytT2 )]      (6)
                                                        T2              T2
                              = (yt1 + πs,t ) − (yt1 + πy,t ) = πs,t − πy,t ,                         (7)


such that
                            Et [rfspread           1                 2             T2
                                   ut,t+1 ] = Et [rf ut,t+1 ] − Et [rf ut,t+1 ] = πy,t .              (8)

       Considerable attention in commodity markets is given to the separation of futures returns
into the component that comes from changes in the spot price of the commodity, and the
roll return from rolling over the strategy every time a contract is (close to) expiring. We
decompose expected first-nearby returns, as follows:


                   Et [rf1 ut,t+1 ] = Et [rf1,spot           1,roll                1        1
                                             ut,t+1 ] + Et [rf ut,t+1 ] = (πs,t + yt ) + (−yt ),      (9)


where the expected spot return is equal to Et [rs,t+1 ], and the roll return is the negative of
the short-term basis. At time t, the (first-) nearby strategy rolls out of the expiring contract
at the spot price, st , and into the (now) first-nearby contract at the futures price, ft1 . We
do not decompose the expected spreading return, because it does not contain a spot return
component.13
  13
    This result follows from the fact that the spot premium shows up in both the first- and second-nearby
return, such that the expected spreading return contains only roll return components. Similarly, we do not
decompose returns of farther-from-expiring contracts, because these contain both spot and term premiums.




                                                        10
2.3 Variable definition

    A long history of literature shows that the basis (Bt ) and momentum (Mt ), respectively
defined as

                                           FtT2
                                       Bt =     − 1,                                                     (10)
                                           FtT1
                                            Yt
                                      Mt =       (1 + RfTut,s
                                                         1
                                                              ) − 1,                                     (11)
                                              s=t−11


predict nearby futures returns with a positive sign.14 Szymanowska et al. (2014) find that
spreading returns are also related to the basis, but not momentum.
    In this paper, we are interested in a new signal, coined “basis-momentum”, defined as
the difference between momentum in the first- and second-nearby futures strategy:15

                                      t
                                      Y                  Y t
                                             T1
                           BMt =       (1 + Rf ut,s ) −       (1 + RfTut,s
                                                                      2
                                                                           ).                            (12)
                                 s=t−11                 s=t−11


The motivation for this signal is that it contains information about both the slope and
curvature of the futures curve, which are determined by investor’s decisions (producers,
consumers, speculators, and, more recently, index investors) to take positions at different
points on the curve. To see why, we use the definition of first- and second-nearby log futures
  14
     Following previous literature, we measure the basis using two futures prices to safeguard against the use
of illiquid spot prices.
  15
     We follow previous literature and define momentum as the prior twelve-month return. Our results are
robust to alternative windows ranging from three to 24 months as well as to skipping a month before portfolio
formation. These results are available upon request.




                                                       11
returns in Equations (5) and (7), and write basis-momentum as

                  t
                  X                     t
                                        X                     t
                                                              X                    X t
                                                                                                2
                          rf1 ut,s −            rf2 ut,s =                1
                                                                   (ss − fs−1 ) −       (fs1 − fs−1 )
                 s=t−11                s=t−11                s=t−11               s=t−11
                                                              t
                                                              X                                 t
                                                                                                X
                                                                       2      1
                                                       =             (fs−1 − fs−1 )−                (fs1 − ss )
                                                             s=t−11                            s=t−11
                                                              t
                                                              X                  t
                                                                                 X
                                                       =              b2s−1 −            b1s                                (13)
                                                             s=t−11             s=t−11


where b1t = ft1 −st and b2t = ft2 −ft1 represent the slope (basis) measured at two different points
on the futures curve. Equation (13) decomposes basis-momentum into average curvature
               Pt−1
( t−1      2            1                             2       1 16
 P
   s=t−11 bs −  s=t−11 bs ) and the change in slope (bt−12 − bt ).

       For most observations in our sample, the futures curve is steeper on the short end, i.e.,
|b2t | < |b1t |. As a result, average curvature is positive (negative) in backwardation (contango),
when first-nearby returns should be positive (negative) and larger (smaller) than second-
nearby returns. Persistence in the steepening (flatterning) of the slope should similarly
predict nearby returns in absolute terms and relative to farther-from-expiring returns.


3 Does basis-momentum predict returns?

       This section asks whether basis-momentum predicts returns in three dimensions of inter-
est: cross section, maturity, and time series.


3.1 Univariate sorts

       To determine whether basis-momentum predicts returns in the cross section and with
maturity, we start by sorting 21 commodities into three portfolios (High4,Mid,Low4) from
August 1960 to February 2014. High4 contains the four commodities with the highest ranked
  16
                                                                                                              Pt          1
    Similarly, we can decompose momentum into the average slope and a change in price:                            s=t−11 rf ut,s =
Pt          1            1
  s=t−11 −bs−1 + (st − ft−12 ).


                                                                12
signal; Low4 contains the four commodities with the lowest ranked signal; and, Mid contains
all remaining commodities (which number is time-varying). In each month t+1, we calculate
                                                                T1            T1
equal-weighted nearby and spreading returns of the portfolios (RBM,p,t+1 and RBM,p,t+1 −
 T2
RBM,p,t+1 for p=[High4,Mid,Low4]). Recall from Section 2.2 that expected nearby returns
capture spot premiums, whereas expected spreading returns capture term premiums. Our
main interest is in the High4-minus-Low4 portfolio, for which we present results for a sort
on basis and momentum as a benchmark. Table 1 presents the results.
      In Panel A, we see that average nearby returns for the High4-minus-Low4 portfolio are
large and significant in all three sorts. However, the effect is largest for basis-momentum,
both economically and statistically, at 18.38% (t = 6.73) relative to -10.61% (t = −3.88)
for basis and 15.02% (t = 4.61) for momentum. For spreading returns in Panel B, we see
a large and significant effect only for basis-momentum, with an average spreading return of
4.08% (t = 6.43) for the High4-minus-Low4 portfolio. For both nearby returns and spreading
returns, the basis-momentum effect translates to a Sharpe ratio of about 0.9.
      Table 1 further shows that nearby returns for both basis-momentum and momentum are
robust pre- and post-1986. In contrast, the basis effect is only large and significant in nearby
returns pre-1986. Spreading returns on the basis-momentum strategy are significant in both
sample periods, but larger in magnitude post-1986. Figure 1 plots rolling twenty-year average
returns for the three strategies and shows that basis-momentum typically outperforms basis
and momentum. Table A.2 of the Internet Appendix shows consistent evidence for the larger
set of 32 commodities. We conclude that all three signals contain information about nearby
commodity futures returns in the cross section, but it is basis-momentum that predicts most
strongly. Further, basis-momentum is the only robust predictor of spreading returns. The
absence of an effect in spreading returns for basis and momentum is consistent with the
fact that these signals are determined by the (average) slope of the futures curve, and not
(directly) by its curvature (see Equation (13) and footnote 16).17
 17
      Szymanowska et al. (2014) find that the basis predicts spreading returns, but these authors sample data


                                                      13
   We now turn to the composition and stability of these sorts. Figure 2 shows the per-
centage of months in which a given commodity is present in the High4 and Low4 portfolio,
respectively. Relative to the case of basis, the basis-momentum and momentum strategies
are more diverse in composition. Figure 3 presents holding returns up to twelve months
after sorting at the end of month t. We see that the basis-momentum effect (in both nearby
and spreading returns) weakens as time passes, but remains significant until eleven months
after the sorting date. In contrast, the momentum effect in nearby returns dies out quickly.
The basis effect in nearby returns strengthens the first few months after sorting and remains
significant until about ten months after sorting.
   Given that similar basis and momentum strategies are already applied in practice (see
footnote 2), we believe that basis-momentum returns survive transaction costs. To see why,
consider the estimated average effective half-spread of 4.4 basis points in Marshall et al.
(2012) for large commodity futures trades. Then, even conservatively assuming that basis-
momentum requires the investor to turn over both his long and short position twelve times
per year (due to rebalancing and rolling of expiring futures contracts), the total transaction
cost would add up to 12×2×2×4.4 = 211.2 basis points, which is well below average nearby
returns of over 18%. Even spreading returns of around 4% survive this conservative estimate,
noting that spreading positions can be rebalanced with one trade given the availability of
calendar spreads (see footnote 9). Moreover, Table 1 demonstrates that over 90% of the
average spreading return of the High4-minus-Low4 basis-momentum strategy comes from
the Low4 portfolio since 1986. Thus, solely trading the short leg will largely preserve the
average return, but halve transaction costs.
at a lower bi-monthly frequency. A monthly frequency is more common, however (see, e.g., Yang (2013),
Koijen et al. (2015), and Bakshi et al. (2015)).




                                                 14
3.2 Multivariate tests

       Even though the average nearby returns for basis-momentum in Table 1 are relatively
large, the difference with basis and momentum is not significant. To ensure that the basis-
momentum effect exists net of these and other characteristics, we first perform independent
double sorts in two basis-momentum groups (split at the median) and two control groups.
The control groups are formed on the basis and twelve-month average basis (both split at
zero), momentum (split at the median), and, finally, hedging and spreading pressure (also
split at the median).18
       Table 2 presents the results. Looking at the control variables, we see that only basis,
average basis, and momentum provide a large and significant High-Low spread in nearby re-
turns around 10%. Controlling for basis-momentum, however, lowers the High-Low spreads
considerably in at least one basis-momentum group. In contrast, the basis-momentum ef-
fect in nearby returns remains large and significant in all control groups. This conclusion
holds also for spreading returns. Next to basis-momentum, spreading returns are large and
significant only for the sort on spreading pressure at -2.03% (t = −4.31). The fact that
the total number of spreading positions of non-commercials predicts spreading returns has
not been documented in the literature before. It is however consistent with the intuition
that long-short spreading positions of speculators may cause differential price pressure in the
futures curve.
       Next, we consider the pooled regressions


                                     RfTut,i,t+1
                                        1
                                                 = λ0C Ci,t + at+1 + µi + ei,t+1 and                      (14)

                       RfTut,i,t+1
                          1
                                   − RfTut,i,t+1
                                        2
                                                 = λ0C Ci,t + at+1 + µi + ei,t+1 .                        (15)
  18
    We use public CFTC data to define hedging pressure as the difference between the number of short and
long positions of commercials as in de Roon et al. (2000), and (speculator) spreading pressure as the total
number of non-commercial spreading positions. We scale both measures by the total position of commercials.
Dictated by data availability, we are restricted to a shorter time series from 1986 onwards for these measures.



                                                      15
We start with a model that includes only basis-momentum, Ci,t = BMi,t , and sequentially
add time fixed effects (at+1 ), commodity fixed effects (µi ), and the control variables basis
and momentum (in which case Ci,t = [BMi,t , Bi,t , Mi,t ]). We cluster the standard errors in
the time dimension.
       These pooled regressions are interesting as they split the return predictability from basis-
momentum in its passive and dynamic components (Koijen et al. (2015)). Without com-
modity and time fixed effects, λBM,t , represents the total return predictability from basis-
momentum. Including time fixed effects removes the passive component coming from average
commodity returns being high or low at a given point in time, analogous to a Fama and Mac-
Beth (1973) regression. Including commodity fixed effects removes the passive component
coming from unequal unconditional average commodity returns, which controls for system-
atic differences across commodity markets (due to investor’s roll-over strategies, liquidity
and market depth, seasonalities, and so on). For instance, Fama and French (1987) and
Moskowitz et al. (2012) find that basis and momentum have predictive power for commod-
ity returns in the time series.19 By including both commodity and time fixed effects, the
slope coefficient λBM,t captures solely the dynamic component of basis-momentum return
predictability.
       Panel A of Table 3 presents the results for nearby returns. In isolation (column one), the
coefficient estimate for basis-momentum is positive and significant at 10.45 (t = 7.45). This
estimate is large economically and translates to an increase in monthly return of around
0.85% for a standard deviation increase in basis-momentum. Adding time fixed effects (col-
umn two) has little impact on the coefficient estimate, which is perhaps unsurprising given
  19
       In the Internet Appendix, we also run individual time series regressions

                                          RfTut,i,t+1
                                             1
                                                      = δ0,i + δBM,i BMi,t + ei,t+1 and             (16)
                             RfTut,i,t+1
                                1
                                         − RfTut,i,t+1
                                              2
                                                       = δ0,i + δBM,i BMi,t + ei,t+1 .              (17)

Inspired by Moskowitz et al. (2012), we also estimate this regression using an indicator variable on the
right-hand side that equals one when BMi,t > 0.



                                                          16
the evidence from our sorts. More interesting is the similarly large and significant coefficient
once we include commodity fixed effects (column three), which means that basis-momentum
also predicts returns in the time series. Combining, the coefficient on lagged basis-momentum
is large and significant at 9.16 (t = 6.81) when both fixed effects are included (column four).
We conclude that that the dynamic component of basis-momentum predictability is dom-
inant. In isolation, basis and momentum also predict nearby returns with a negative and
positive coefficient, respectively (columns five and six). However, the dynamic component of
basis-momentum predictability is robust to the inclusion of these benchmark predictors in
a joint model (column seven). In contrast, the benchmark predictors are insignificant once
basis-momentum is controlled for.20
       In Panel B we see largely similar evidence for the predictability of spreading returns. In
isolation (column one), the coefficient estimate for basis-momentum is positive and significant
at 2.34 (t = 6.89). This estimate is economically large, as it translates to an increase
in monthly spreading return of around 0.20% for a standard deviation increase in basis-
momentum. Since the coefficient estimate is only slightly smaller once we control for both
time and commodity fixed effects (column four), we conclude that the total spreading return
predictability is also driven by the dynamic components of basis-momentum. Basis and
momentum do not predict spreading returns.
       The last two columns of Panels A and B show largely similar results for the two subsam-
ples split around January 1986, whereas Table A.4 of the Internet Appendix shows similar
evidence for the larger cross section of 32 commodities. Table A.5 of the Internet Appendix
presents commodity-level time series regressions (see Eqs. (16) and (17)) to highlight which
commodities drive the coefficient estimates in the pooled regression. In short, compared to
basis and momentum, basis-momentum predicts nearby returns of a large number of com-
modities from various sectors. For spreading returns, the outperformance of basis-momentum
  20
     Controlling instead for the twelve-month average basis as well as hedging and spreading pressure has
little effect on the coefficient estimates for basis-momentum.



                                                   17
is even more outspoken.
   In Panel C of Table 3, we present results for two decompositions of basis-momentum.
First, we regress futures returns jointly on first- and second-nearby momentum (Mt and
MtT2 = ts=t−11 (1 + RfTut,s
        Q              2
                            ) − 1) to see whether their coefficients are opposite in sign, as is
imposed by basis-momentum. Second, we regress futures returns on average curvature and
the change in slope (see Section 2.3), defined as:

                                              t−1
                                              X                 t−1
                                                                X
                                   Curvt =            BsT2 −            Bs                 (18)
                                             s=t−11            s=t−11

                                            T2
                                 ∆Slopet = Bt−12 − Bt ;                                    (19)


where Bt is the slope between the first- and second-nearby futures prices (as defined in
                            T
                          Ft 3
Equation 11) and BtT2 =     T    − 1 is the slope between the second- and third-nearby futures
                          Ft 2
prices.
   We see that first- and second-nearby momentum significantly predict both nearby and
spreading returns, with similar magnitude but with opposite sign (9.06 and -8.84 for nearby
returns and 1.87 and -2.23 for spreading returns). The absolute magnitude of these coef-
ficients is similar to the coefficient on basis-momentum in Panels A and B and we cannot
reject the null that the three coefficients are equal at conventional levels of significance. We
conclude that the restriction imposed by basis-momentum (i.e., that the difference in mo-
mentum predicts returns) is supported in the data. Next, we see that both average curvature
and change in slope are (marginally) significant in predicting nearby and spreading returns,
with the largest effect observed for average curvature. The economic magnitude of the coeffi-
cients is large, with an increase in monthly nearby (spreading) return of about 0.60% (0.16%)
and 0.34% (0.05%) for a standard deviation increase in Curvt and ∆Slopet , respectively. We
conclude that both components of basis-momentum contribute to its excellent performance
as a predictor of commodity returns.


                                                 18
   In all, the results of this section show that basis-momentum is the most powerful predictor
to date of commodity futures returns in three dimensions of large interest: cross section,
maturity, and time series. Basis-momentum predictability revolves around the dynamic
components of spot and term premiums and is robust to controlling for known predictors.
In fact, the performance of the previously known predictors is considerably less impressive
once basis-momentum is controlled for. We conclude that basis-momentum should be a
key input to empirical studies of commodity futures returns as well as to active commodity
trading strategies.


3.3 Basis-momentum predictability across the futures curve

   In this subsection we ask whether basis-momentum predictability is present throughout
the futures curve. To this end, we first ask whether basis-momentum, as measured in Equa-
tion (12), is able to predict returns of the second- and third-nearby strategies (RfTut,t
                                                                                     2
                                                                                          and
RfTut,t
   3
        ) as well as spreading returns between the second- and third-nearby and the third- and
fourth-nearby strategies (RfTut,t
                             2
                                  − RfTut,t
                                       3
                                            and RfTut,t
                                                   3
                                                        − RfTut,t
                                                             4
                                                                  ). Next, we construct alternative
measures of basis-momentum using these farther-from-expiring strategies, and ask whether
these measures contain orthogonal information about returns. Using notation similar to
before, we define

                                  t
                                  Y                      Y t
                      BMt2,3 =               T2
                                       (1 + Rf ut,s ) −       (1 + RfTut,s
                                                                      3
                                                                           ), and             (20)
                                 s=t−11                 s=t−11
                                  t
                                  Y                      Y t
                      BMt3,4 =               T3
                                       (1 + Rf ut,s ) −       (1 + RfTut,s
                                                                      4
                                                                           ).                 (21)
                                 s=t−11                 s=t−11


   We sort commodities on the various basis-momentum signals to calculate average High4-
minus-Low4 returns at various locations on the curve. Table 4 presents unconditional per-
formance measures. In the first block of results, commodities are sorted on basis-momentum
from Equation (12), which measure we used before. We note that farther-from-expiring fu-

                                                  19
tures returns are predictable with basis-momentum as well, but the effect weakens as the
contract is farther from expiration. Compared to the results in Table 1, the performance of
the High4-minus-Low4 portfolio is only slightly worse for RfTut,s
                                                             2
                                                                  and RfTut,s
                                                                         2
                                                                              − RfTut,s
                                                                                   3
                                                                                        , trans-
lating to Sharpe ratios of 0.80 and 0.63, respectively. For RfTut,s
                                                               3
                                                                    and RfTut,s
                                                                           3
                                                                                − RfTut,s
                                                                                     4
                                                                                          , the
performance is again slightly worse, but still significant, economically and statistically.
   In the remaining two blocks of results we sort commodities on BMt2,3 and BMt3,4 . The
first test in each block shows that these measures perform well in predicting returns of their
respective contracts. For instance, sorting on BMt2,3 yields a High4-minus-Low4 portfolio
Sharpe ratio of 0.92 and 0.68 for RfTut,s
                                     2
                                          and RfTut,s
                                                 2
                                                      −RfTut,s
                                                          3
                                                               , respectively. To ascertain that this
result is not driven by a large correlation between basis-momentum measured at different
points on the futures curve, the second test in each block zooms in on those months where
BMt2,3 and BMt3,4 show little agreement with our standard measure of basis-momentum.
To be precise, months with little agreement are those months where less than or equal to
three (out of eight) commodities in the High4 and Low4 portfolios overlap between two
alternative measures of basis-momentum. We see that even in these months the High4-
minus-Low4 portfolios perform attractively with Sharpe ratios over 0.42 when investing in
the farther-from-expiring futures strategies, with the exception of RfTut,s
                                                                       3
                                                                            − RfTut,s
                                                                                 4
                                                                                      . Table A.6
presents similar evidence for the larger sample of 32 commodities.
   We conclude that basis-momentum measured at the short-end of the futures curve is
able to identify that relatively near-to-expiring contracts will perform more attractively next
month. However, basis-momentum also contains a significant maturity-specific component
that varies across the short-, mid-, and long-end of the curve.


4 What drives basis-momentum and why does the effect persist?

   In this section, we analyze how basis-momentum fits into existing commodity futures
pricing theory. We argue that basis-momentum is driven by maturity-specific (hedger’s)


                                                 20
price pressure. Next, we analyze how the basis-momentum effect has persisted since the
1960s and argue that basis-momentum exposes investors to volatility risk.


4.1 Maturity-specific hedger’s price pressure

   Hedging pressure (Cootner (1960, 1967)) is a reinterpretation of the theory of normal
backwardation of Keynes (1930). The basic idea is that futures risk premiums depend on
the hedging demand of producers relative to consumers. If hedging is on aggregate short
(long), futures prices are set below (above) the expected future spot price to convince risk-
averse speculators to provide liquidity. In this paper, we consider an extension of this theory,
because a standard hedger’s price pressure is unlikely to explain our results. The principal
ideas of Keynes and Cootner say nothing about spreading returns and maturity-specific
effects, whereas we saw already that basis-momentum is robust to controlling for hedging
pressure in cross-sectional tests.
   We argue that if hedger’s price pressure varies persistently across contracts of a single
commodity, this could drive variation in both spot and term premiums. To test this hy-
pothesis against alternative explanations based on storage and inventory dynamics, we ask
whether return predictability from basis-momentum centers in roll or spot returns. Roll
returns are mostly driven by imbalances in supply and demand of futures contracts from
hedgers versus speculators that impact the shape of the futures curve, but not the spot price
(see Moskowitz et al. (2012) and Cheng and Xiong (2014)). In contrast, spot returns are
central to the theory of storage and directly affected by storage and inventory of the physical
commodity. We also test whether basis-momentum exists in currency markets, where storage
is not an issue. Before turning to these new tests, it is important to note that Gorton et al.
(2013) argue that the returns earned on basis and momentum strategies are compensation
for bearing risk during times when inventories are low. The fact that the basis-momentum
effect is robust to controlling for these factors (see Tables (2) and (3)) is, thus, a first piece



                                                21
of evidence against storage- and inventory-based explanations.


4.1.1 Roll and spot returns

       Table 5 presents results for the same sort as Table 1, but decomposes nearby returns
in their spot and roll return components (see their definition in Section 2.2. Spot and roll
returns for the first-nearby contract are calculated as:

                                spot       1 + RfTut,t+1
                                                  1

                               Rf ut,t+1 =               − 1, where                               (22)
                                           1 + Rfroll
                                                  ut,t+1
                                             
                                                 T1
                                              FtT − 1, if T1 = t + 2
                                             
                                                  2
                               Rfroll
                                  ut,t+1 =
                                               Ft
                                                                                                  (23)
                                             
                                             0,         otherwise.

The first equation uses that, by construction, the futures return combines the spot and roll
return.21 In months that the strategy rolls, the roll return is calculated by dividing the price
of the contract that you roll out of (the contract that expires in t + 2) by the price of the
contract that you roll into (and becomes the first-nearby contract). Roll returns are positive
(negative) in a backwardated (contangoed) market, because the contract that you roll into
has a lower (higher) price.
       For basis-momentum, we see that the average return of the High4-minus-Low4 strategy,
18.38%, is almost completely driven by an average roll return of 21.53%. The average spot
return is small and insignificant at -2.83%.Consistent with the fact that the nearby roll return
is equal to the negative of the basis (see Equation (9)), we find an average roll return that is
even larger for the sort on basis at -48.90%. Given this result, one might expect basis to be a
better predictor of nearby futures returns than basis-momentum. We have already seen that
it is not, however, with the average effect being smaller at -10.61%. This result is driven by
strongly significant, but opposite, spot return predictability. Average spot returns for the
  21
    Note that these returns are not tradable: roll and spot returns are the two components that make up
the return to a rolling futures strategy.


                                                    22
basis strategy are 37.92%, consistent with the idea that futures prices contain information
about expected future spot prices.22 As a result, a large basis indicates that the market
expects the spot price to increase over the life of the contract. This effect counteracts roll
return predictability when predicting nearby futures returns. Interestingly, we find a similar,
but weaker counteracting effect between spot and roll return predictability for the case of
momentum.
       Next, we run time series regressions of log holding period returns on lagged basis-
momentum (following Fama and French (1987)):


                           rfTut,i,t+1:t+T
                              1
                                          1
                                            = η0,i + ηBM,i BMi,t + vi,t+1:t+T1 ,                                   (24)

                           rfroll              roll   roll          roll
                              ut,i,t+1:t+T1 = η0,i + ηBM,i BMi,t + vi,t+1:t+T1 , and                               (25)
                                                      spot          spot
                           rfspot              spot
                              ut,i,t+1:t+T1 = η0,i + ηBM,i BMi,t + vi,t+1:t+T1 .                                   (26)


Note here that the left-hand side log returns are defined by the price difference of the first-
nearby contract between two roll dates: t and t + T1 . As a benchmark, we also perform these
regressions for basis and momentum.23
       Table 6 contains an overview of the results, counting the number of positive and negative
coefficients (that are significant at the 10%-level) for each predictor variable. Table A.7 of
the Internet Appendix contains the full set of regression results. For a total of twelve out
of 21 commodities, basis-momentum predicts nearby returns with a positive and significant
coefficient. As in the cross section, this predictability is driven by roll returns, which basis-
momentum predicts with a positive and significant coefficient in eighteen cases. In contrast,
  22
     To see this, decompose the futures price in the expected futures spot price and a risk premium: FtT =
Et [ST ] − Et [PtT ] (Eq. (4) in Fama and French (1987)). Now, decompose the futures return as ST − FtT =
([ST − St ] − Et [ST − St ]) + Et [PtT ], i.e., the spot return plus a roll return that is exactly equal to the negative
of the basis (St − FtT ). If market expectations are rational, one would indeed expect the basis to predict
spot and roll returns with opposite signs. A negative covariance between the premium and (expected) spot
returns, as observed in commodity data, further strengthens this effect (see, also, Koijen et al. (2015)).
  23                                                                                              roll    spot
     Fama and French (1987) notes the following equalities for the case of basis: 0 = η0,i             = η0,i  − η0,i and
         roll    spot
−1 = ηB,i = ηB,i − ηB,i .


                                                          23
basis-momentum does not predict spot returns in more than a few cases. Consistent with
Table A.5 of the Internet Appendix, the number of commodities for which basis-momentum
predicts futures returns (twelve) is large relative to basis and momentum (six and four).
Again, this result is driven by the fact that although basis and momentum predict roll
returns even better than basis-momentum, they predict spot returns with the opposite sign.
   We conclude that basis-momentum predictability is driven by roll returns, and not spot
returns. This finding represent the second piece of evidence against storage- and inventory-
based explanations of basis-momentum, but is possibly consistent with maturity-specific
price pressure. In support of this conclusion, we have already shown that basis-momentum
contains a maturity-specific component (see Table 4) and strongly predicts spreading returns
that do not contain a spot return component (see footnote 13).


4.1.2 Basis-momentum in currency markets

   Our currency sample is standard and contains 48 currencies from December 1996 to
August 2015, for which we collect spot and one- and two-month forward exchange rates (St+1 ,
  1          2
Ft+1 , and Ft+1 , respectively, in US dollars per unit of foreign currency). A full description of
the dataset and the data-cleaning procedure are found in Appendix A. We define monthly
nearby and spreading currency returns as

                                  1
                                 rcur,t+1 = St+1 /Ft1 , and                                  (27)
                                  spread     1           1
                                 rcur,t+1 = rcur,t+1 − Ft+1 /Ft2 .                           (28)


As in the case of commodities, we sort these currency returns into three portfolios using
basis-momentum, basis, and momentum.
   Table 7 presents the results. In short, basis-momentum predicts currency returns. The
nearby return of the High4-minus-Low4 portfolio is large and significant at 8.06% (t = 3.47).
This return translates to a Sharpe ratio of 0.81, which is similar to what we find in the case

                                                24
of commodities in Table (1). The spreading return of the High4-minus-Low4 portfolio is
significant as well at 0.78% (t = 2.32), translating to a Sharpe ratio that is slightly below
what we find for commodities: 0.54.24
       The existence of a basis-momentum effect in currency markets represents the third piece
of evidence against storage- and inventory-based explanations, but can be explained in the
context of maturity-specific price pressure. Domestic firms and investors with business in
foreign currency want to sell foreign currency forward to hedge; foreign firms and investors
with business in the domestic currency want to buy foreign currency to hedge; and, spe-
cialized speculators are there to clear the market. Thus, if there is persistent time-variation
in the exposures of these groups of traders, this will lead to time-varying price pressures at
different contract maturities and basis-momentum, in much the same way as in commodity
markets.


4.2 Basis-momentum and volatility

       To determine how the basis-momentum effect has been able to persist since the intro-
duction of commodity futures trading, we ask how our strategies are related to volatility. A
relation between maturity-specific price pressure and volatility can be motivated using the
model of Brunnermeier and Pedersen (2009). These authors argue that when liquidity is
tight, speculators become reluctant to take on positions that clear the market and volatility
increases. Conversely, liquidity declines when fundamental volatility increases. This model
has two implications that we test in the following: (i) higher volatility is related to more price
pressure and thus higher future returns on basis-momentum strategies, and (ii) volatility is
a state variable for risk premiums in commodity markets.
  24
    In contrast to the case of commodities, basis outperforms basis-momentum in predicting currency returns.
This evidence is consistent with an opposite relation between premiums and (expected) spot returns in
commodity and currency markets (see footnote 22 and Koijen et al. (2015)). Because our focus is on
commodity markets, we leave a thorough investigation of basis-momentum in currency markets to future
work.



                                                    25
   We consider both aggregate and average commodity volatility risk to ensure that the risk
exposure is economically relevant for diversified commodity investors as well as traditional
hedgers and specialized speculators. We compute aggregate commodity market variance in
month t, vartmkt , as the sum of squared daily returns on an equal-weighted commodity index
following the approach of Goyal and Welch (2008). We compute average commodity market
variance in month t, vartavg , as the equal weighted average of the sum of squared daily returns
of individual commodities. Both variance series are winsorized at the 1%-level, to reduce
the impact of outliers, and standardized to accommodate interpretation.
   We first test whether (the level of) variance predicts basis-momentum (nearby and spread-
ing) portfolio returns using the regression:


                           Rf ut,p,t+1:t+k = v0 + vvar vart + et+1:t+k ,                   (29)


where the left-hand side returns are compounded over horizons of k = 1, 6, 12 months. To
conserve space, Panel A of Table 8 presents only the estimated coefficient, v1 , with its
t-statistic computed using Newey-West standard errors with k lags, and the regression R2 .
The first three rows show that aggregate commodity market variance predicts nearby returns
(marginally) significantly at all horizons. The effect is economically large, with an annualized
increase in the nearby return of the High4-minus-Low4 portfolio of, for instance, 7.56% for
k = 1 and 5.78% for k = 12 for a standard deviation increase in variance. For spreading
returns, the evidence is similar in significance and economic magnitude, with an increase in
High4-minus-Low4 spreading return of, for instance, 0.85% for k = 1 and 1.27% for k = 12.
The last three rows show largely similar evidence for our measure of average commodity
market variance. We conclude that volatility predicts returns on basis-momentum strategies.
   Next, we test whether basis-momentum (nearby and spreading) returns are exposed to




                                                26
innovations in these variance series:


                                  Rf ut,p,t+1 = ν0 + νvar ∆vart+1 + ot+1 ,                                 (30)


where the innovation, ∆vart+1 , is measured as a first-difference.25 Panel B of Table 8 present
the results focusing on the estimated coefficient, νvar . We see that exposures to innovations
in aggregate commodity market variance decrease monotonically with basis-momentum in
nearby returns. This pattern results in a significantly negative exposure of -8.65 (t = −3.14)
for the High4-minus-Low4 portfolio, which translates to an annualized return of -9.58%
                                               mkt
for a one standard deviation innovation in ∆vart+1 . Exposures to innovations in average
commodity market volatility are similar, translating to a significant increase in annualized
return for the High4-minus-Low4 portfolio of -7.67% for a one standard deviation innovation
       avg
in ∆vart+1 . Finally, the exposures of the High4-minus-Low4 portfolio in spreading returns
are also negative, but small and insignificant. We conclude that basis-momentum exposes
both diversified and specialized commodity market investors to volatility risk, in particular
through nearby returns.
       In Table A.8 of the Internet Appendix, we present the same tests for basis and momen-
tum. In short, the relation of these strategies with volatility is quite different from basis-
momentum. Although basis and momentum are marginally exposed in nearby returns to
innovations in volatility (albeit weaker than basis-momentum), neither nearby nor spreading
returns are predictable by lagged volatility (in contrast to basis-momentum).
       In all, the evidence for basis-momentum is most consistent with the model of Brunner-
meier and Pedersen (2009) and, more particularly, our hypothesis of maturity-specific price
pressure. When volatility is high, speculators are unwilling to provide liquidity and require
a higher risk premium to clear the market especially for those futures contracts with largest
  25
     The results are qualitatively robust to alternative specifications, such as estimating the innovations using
an autoregressive model or using the sum of absolute returns to define the volatility series as in Menkhoff et
al. (2012a).


                                                       27
(hedger’s) price pressure. As a result, we also have that shocks to volatility contemporane-
ously depress most the prices of these futures contracts, which in turn leads to predictability
in basis-momentum returns. Consistent with previous literature, these results suggest that
volatility is an important state variable and captures a negative price of risk in commodity
markets. In Section 5.3 we estimate the price of volatility risk directly in cross-sectional
asset pricing tests.


5 Is basis-momentum a priced commodity risk factor?

   In this section, we analyze the asset pricing implications from the basis-momentum
strategy. Given that basis-momentum is an important driver of variation in commodity
spot and term premiums and exposes investors to volatility risk, one might naturally ex-
pect exposure to basis-momentum to be priced. Following previous literature, we con-
struct basis-momentum nearby and spreading factors as the High4-minus-Low4 portfolio
                                                      nearby    T1          spread
return from a single sort on basis-momentum, denoted RBM,t+1 = RBM,t+1 and RBM,t+1 =
 T1        T2
RBM,t+1 − RBM,t+1 . We use similar notation for the nearby and spreading factors in bench-
mark commodity factor pricing models.


5.1 The basis-momentum factor

   Panel A of Table 9 presents summary statistics for the two basis-momentum factors as
well as five benchmark factors from the models of Szymanowska et al. (2014) (including
                              nearby    spread             spread
three basis-related factors: RB,t+1  , RB,High4,t+1 , and RB,Low4,t+1 ) and Bakshi et al. (2015)
                                         nearby    nearby          nearby
(including three nearby-return factors: RB,t+1  , RAV G,t+1 , and RM,t+1 ). The latter model

nests the two-factor model of Yang (2013), who leaves out the momentum factor. As noted
in Table 1, the basis-momentum factors represent relatively attractive investment strategies
relative to the benchmark factors. Further, the factors based on nearby returns are positively
correlated, but no correlation is larger than 0.42. The correlations between factors based on


                                              28
                                                                      nearby      spread
nearby and spreading returns are even smaller, with the exception of RBM,t+1 and RBM,t+1 ,
with a correlation of 0.50. Thus, even though the cross section of commodities is small, the
factors are sufficiently different to obtain independent variation over time.
   In Panel B, we present spanning tests for the basis-momentum factors. In short, the two
benchmark models do not go a long way in explaining the returns of the basis-momentum
factors. For the basis-momentum nearby factor, the alpha is large and significant in both
models at about 13% (t > 5), down from 18% in average returns. Moreover, the R2 is only
about 20% in both models, driven mostly by a large negative exposure to the nearby basis
factor. Similarly, for the basis-momentum spreading factor, the alpha is large and significant
in both models at about 3.5% (t > 5), down from 4% in average returns. Also, the R2 is
again below 20% in both models. The final two columns of the table demonstrate that these
alphas are robust pre- and post-1986. Moreover, Table A.9 of the Internet Appendix shows
similar evidence when the factors are constructed from the larger set of 32 commodities. We
conclude that basis-momentum strategies provide an abnormal return.


5.2 Cross-sectional asset pricing tests with the basis-momentum factor

   Next, we conduct cross-sectional regressions to estimate the price investors pay for ex-
posure to basis-momentum. We consider a set of six candidate commodity factor pricing
models that are nested in the model

                                  nearby         nearby         nearby         nearby
               Rt+1 =γ0,t + γ1,t βBM,t   + γ2,t βB,t    + γ3,t βAV G,t + γ4,t βM,t    +
                             spread         spread            spread
                       γ5,t βBM,t   + γ6,t βB,High4,t + γ7,t βB,Low4,t + ut+1 , or        (31)

               Rt+1 =γ0,t + γt0 βt + ut+1 .                                               (32)


The first specification is the model of Szymanowska et al. (2014) (setting γ1,t = γ3,t = γ4,t =
γ5,t = 0). The second specification is the model of Bakshi et al. (2015) (setting γ1,t = γ5,t =
γ6,t = γ7,t = 0). The third and fourth specification, respectively, add the basis-momentum

                                                  29
nearby factor to these models. The fifth model is a two-factor model including the average
factor and the basis-momentum nearby factor (setting γ2,t = γ4,t = γ5,t = γ6,t = γ7,t = 0).
The motivation for this specification is that the average factor might do a good job capturing
the level of commodity returns, whereas the basis-momentum factor might do a good job
capturing the cross-sectional variation of commodity returns. The final model tests what
the basis-momentum spreading factor adds to this two-factor model.
       We perform these cross-sectional regressions using both nearby and spreading returns on
the left-hand side. The motivation is that a large share of investors in commodity markets
takes positions further down the futures curve, because the horizon of their underlying expo-
sure is not matched by the first-nearby contract or because they desire to hold a spreading
position, for instance, to execute a particular roll-over strategy or to hedge out common risk.
This approach is similar to using managed portfolios as advocated in Cochrane (2005), but
we condition on expiration, not on a lagged instrumental variable.
       Furthermore, we consider two sets of test assets. The first set of test assets is a cross
section of 32 portfolios that combines the nearby and spreading returns of nine portfolios
sorted on basis, momentum, and basis-momentum with seven sector portfolios.26 For this
portfolio-level test, we estimate full sample betas, such that βt is constant over time. Al-
though adding sector portfolios follows the suggestion in Kan et al. (2013), one might still be
concerned that the remaining left-hand side portfolios are constructed from the same sort as
the right-hand side factors (Ferson et al. (1999)). To address this concern, the second set of
test assets we consider is the cross section of nearby and spreading returns of individual com-
modities. This approach follows the recent trend in stock markets to perform cross-sectional
tests for individual stocks instead of portfolios (see, e.g., Lewellen et al. (2010) and Ang et
al. (2011)). This approach is particularly attractive as a check of robustness for the case of
  26
    The composition of the sectors (Energy, Meats, Metals, Grains, Oilseeds, Softs, and Industrial Materials)
can be found in Table A.1 and follows Szymanowska et al. (2014). Because there are no Energy and Meats
commodities in the first years of our sample, these sectors are included only in the sub-sample starting from
1986.


                                                     30
commodities, as the cross section is small to begin with. Therefore, one would like to use as
much of the available information as possible, and some information will surely be lost when
sorting commodities into portfolios (Daniel and Titman (1997)). In this case, we estimate
time-varying commodity level betas over a one year rolling window of daily returns.27 We
switch to a daily frequency to keep the betas timely, which is important because previous
literature finds that betas of individual commodities vary quite dramatically over time (Bak-
shi et al. (2015)). The daily factor returns in month t + 1 are calculated by combining daily
commodity returns in month t + 1 with portfolio weights at the end of month t. Daskalaki
et al. (2014) argue that commodity-level exposures contain lots of noise, making the cross
section of individual commodities notoriously hard to price. Therefore, this exercise will
present a serious challenge for any new commodity factor.
   Table 10 presents the results for portfolios (Panel A) and individual commodities (Panel
B). In Panel A, we present annualized risk prices for the factors of interest, their Shanken
(1992) t-statistic, and the mean absolute pricing error (M AP E). We also decompose the
MAPE into the part coming from the sixteen nearby-portfolio returns and the sixteen
spreading-portfolio returns (M AP E nearby and M AP E spread ). In Panel B, we estimate the
t-statistics using the procedure of Fama and MacBeth (1973) and the R2 and M AP E’s are
from a regression of average commodity return on average beta, to ensure comparability of
the cross-sectional fit across panels.
   In Panel A, we first see that the three-factor model of Szymanowska et al. (2014) obtains
a reasonable cross-sectional fit with an R2 of 0.65 and a M AP E of 2.18%. The basis nearby
factor captures a significant price of risk of -20.75%, which estimate is large economically,
but also relative to the average return of this factor: -10.61%. The estimated prices of
risk for the two basis spreading return factors are small and insignificant, however. The fit
  27
     Estimating rolling window betas automatically deals with the staggered introduction of commodities in
the sample. We estimate betas only for those commodities with more than 125 return observations in the
window.




                                                   31
improves for the three-factor model of Bakshi et al. (2015) with an R2 of 0.80 and a M AP E
of 1.53%. Further, the estimated prices of risk for all three factors are significant. The third
and fourth specification demonstrate that adding the basis-momentum nearby factor to each
of these two models improves the cross-sectional fit considerably with R2 ’s (M AP E’s) of
0.79 and 0.92 (1.76% and 1.05%), respectively. The estimated price of risk for the basis-
momentum factor is large and significant in both cases at about 18% (t = 5.8), which is
close to the average return of the basis-momentum factor and translates to a Sharpe ratio of
about 0.85. Since none of the benchmark factors is driven out, we conclude that exposures
to the basis-momentum factor contain independent information about the cross section of
average portfolio returns.
   In fact, in the fifth specification we see that a two-factor model, including the average
factor and the basis-momentum nearby factor, is comparable to the larger three- and four-
factor models in terms of cross-sectional fit, with an R2 of 0.85 and M AP E of 1.38. In the
last model, we see that the basis-momentum spreading factor is significant when added to this
two-factor model. However, the improvement in R2 is only marginal, whereas the M AP E
among spreading returns actually increases. This finding suggests that the basis-momentum
nearby factor adequately captures the cross-sectional variation in average nearby returns
as well as average spreading returns of these portfolios. Although the estimated intercept
is negative and significant in models that include the basis-momentum factor, it is small
economically at about -1%. We conclude that the two-factor model presents a parsimonious
representation of the cross section of average returns, with the average commodity market
factor capturing the level of returns and the basis-momentum factor capturing cross-sectional
variation.
   The pricing evidence for basis-momentum is quantitatively and qualitatively robust in
the commodity-level test of Panel B. First, exposure to the basis-momentum factor captures
a large and significant price of risk of about 15% (translating to a Sharpe ratio of about
0.55), even when controlling for the benchmark factors. Second, the cross-sectional fit of

                                              32
the parsimonious two-factor model (including the average factor and the basis-momentum
factor) is again similar to the larger three- and four-factor models. Among the remaining
factors, the basis and average nearby factor are consistently priced, but the momentum
nearby factor is not. Similar to the case of portfolios, the basis-momentum spreading factor
has little to add in terms of cross-sectional fit. These conclusions are robust when we split
the sample in two (see the last four columns of Panels A and B) and when we perform the
tests for the larger set of 32 commodities (see Table A.10 of the Internet Appendix).
   In sum, the evidence from these cross-sectional asset pricing tests suggests that basis-
momentum captures priced risk. The basis-momentum factor is a key determinant of cross-
sectional variation in average returns of commodity-sorted portfolios as well as individual
commodities, and provides an adequate cross-sectional fit when combined with an average
commodity market factor. The larger three- and four-factor models of Szymanowska et al.
(2014) and Bakshi et al. (2015) provide a similar fit, with robust prices of risk for the nearby
basis and nearby average factor. In contrast, we find little or inconsistent evidence for the
pricing of spreading factors as well as the nearby momentum factor.


5.3 The basis-momentum factor and the price of volatility risk

   In this subsection we ask whether volatility is a state variable for risk premiums in com-
modity markets, consistent with the model of Brunnermeier and Pedersen (2009). If the
exposure of basis-momentum to volatility risk is economically important, one would expect
volatility risk to capture cross-sectional variation in average returns similar to the basis-
momentum factor. To this end, we first test whether exposures to volatility risk explain
cross-sectional variation in average nearby and spreading returns of commodity-sorted port-
folios. We consider two-factor models that include the average commodity market factor
and either the aggregate or average commodity market volatility risk factor (instead of the




                                              33
basis-momentum factor). Table 11 presents the results.28 We find that exposure to volatility
risk captures a large and significant negative price of risk, independent of whether this risk is
                                             mkt                   avg
measured as the innovation in aggregate (∆vart+1 ) or average (∆vart+1 ) commodity market
variance. The point estimates of -0.08 and -0.24 for the price of volatility risk translate to an
annual Sharpe ratio of about -0.65, which is consistent in magnitude with previous evidence
in, e.g., Menkhoff et al. (2012a) and Koijen et al. (2015), and also the basis-momentum
factor in Table 10. The cross-sectional R2 ’s in these two models is about 0.65, which is not
far below the two-factor model that includes instead of volatility risk the basis-momentum
factor or the larger three- and four-factor models. This cross-sectional fit is impressive for a
non-traded factor.
       Finally, we include both basis-momentum and each volatility factor next to the average
commodity market factor. The basis-momentum nearby factor largely drives out the volatil-
ity risk factors, leaving only a small and insignificant negative price of volatility risk.We
caution to not interpret these regressions as horse races. As noted in Cochrane (2005, Ch.
7), it is pointless to run horse races between models with non-traded factors and return-based
mimicking portfolios of these factors. Instead, given that the nearby basis-momentum factor
is strongly exposed to volatility risk (see Table 8), we interpret this evidence as supporting
the interpretation that basis-momentum is a priced risk factor in commodity markets largely
because it mimicks well priced volatility risk.


6 Conclusion

       In this paper, we extract a basis-momentum factor related to the slope and curvature
of the commodity futures curve and uncover a number of asset pricing implications. These
implications are important, because the recent financialization of commodity markets has
inspired large and ever-growing institutional investment in commodities.
  28
    Table A.11 of the Internet Appendix presents largely similar evidence when the portfolios and right-hand
side factors are constructed using the larger cross section of 32 commodities.


                                                    34
   Our contribution to the literature follows from three main results. First, basis-momentum
is the best known time series and cross-sectional predictor of nearby and spreading returns
in commodity markets since their inception in 1959. Second, the basis-momentum effect is
maturity-specific, follows from predictability of roll returns (not appreciation of spot com-
modity prices), and exists also in currency markets. Consequently, basis-momentum is un-
likely to be driven by storage or inventory dynamics, but is consistent with maturity-specific
(hedger’s) price pressure. Consistent with such price pressure, we show that basis-momentum
returns are increasing in volatility and exposed to volatility risk. Third, in line with this
finding, we find that exposure to a basis-momentum factor is priced, even after control-
ling for recently developed commodity factor pricing models. A parsimonious two-factor
model, including an average commodity market factor and the basis-momentum factor, does
a good job explaining cross section variation in nearby and spreading returns. Finally, the
basis-momentum effect largely represents a compensation for volatility risk, which we show
to be priced much more broadly in commodity markets than was previously known in the
literature.
   In sum, basis-momentum is key to understanding the variation of commodity prices
and thus a crucial input for the models of empiricists, theorists, and practitioners with an
interest in commodity markets. Future work is warranted to find the economic drivers of
hedger’s versus speculator’s investment decisions that determine the separate components of
basis-momentum: average curvature and changes in the slope of the futures curve, and to
better understand why these components jointly are so strongly related to returns relative
to benchmark characteristics, such as basis and momentum.


7 Appendix: Currency data

   The data for spot as well as one- and two-month forward exchange rates cover the sample
period from December 1996 to August 2015, and are obtained from BBI and Reuters (via


                                             35
Datastream). Although for many currencies spot and one-month forward exchange rates
are available before 1996, two-month forward exchange rates are not. Spot and forward
rates are observed on the last trading day of a given month. Our total sample consists of
the following 48 countries: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, Euro area, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ice- land, Japan, Kuwait,
Malaysia, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Rus-
sia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Ukraine, United Kingdom.
   We follow Lustig et al. (2013) in cleaning the data. The euro series start in January 1999
and, therefore, we exclude the euro area countries after this date. Some of these currencies
have pegged their exchange rate partly or completely to the US dollar over the course of the
sample; for this reason, we exclude Hong Kong and Saudi Arabia. Based on large failures of
covered interest parity, we deleted the following observations from our sample: Malaysia from
the end of August 1998 to the end of June 2005; and Indonesia from the end of December
2000 to the end of May 2007.
   In each month t, we sort these currencies in three portfolios. We define currency basis-
momentum, basis, and momentum as follows

                                    t
                                    Y                  Yt
                                                 1            1
                          cur
                        BMi,t =         (St+1 /Ft ) −      (Ft+1 /Ft2 ),                (33)
                                   s=t−2              s=t−2

                            cur
                           Bi,t = Ft1 /St − 1,                                          (34)
                                    t
                                    Y
                           cur
                          Mi,t =        (St+1 /Ft1 ) − 1,                               (35)
                                   s=t−2


               1          2
where St+1 , Ft+1 , and Ft+1 are the spot price and one- and two-month forward price, re-
spectively. Note, we define basis-momentum and momentum using the last three months of



                                              36
returns, because recent evidence on momentum strategies in currency markets shows that
performance is superior over shorter ranking periods than twelve months (Menkhoff et al.
(2012b)). Basis is calculated as the one month forward price divided by the spot price minus
one, which is standard in the currency literature.




                                             37
References

Acharya, V.V., L.A. Lochstoer, and T.Ramadorai, 2013, Limits to arbitrage and hedging:
  Evidence from commodity markets , Journal of Financial Economics 109 (2), 441-465.

Adrian, Tobias, and Joshua Rosenberg, 2008, Stock returns and volatility: Pricing the short-
  run and long-run components of market risk, Journal of Finance 63, 2997-3030.

Amihud, Y., H. Mendelson, and L.H. Pedersen, 2005, Liquidity and Asset Pricing, Founda-
  tions and Trends in Finance 1, 269-364.

Ang, Andrew, Robert Hodrick, Yuhang Xing, and Xiaoyan Zhang, 2006, The cross-section
  of volatility and expected returns, Journal of Finance 61, 259-299.

Ang, A., J. Liu, K. Schwarz, 2011, Using Stocks or Portfolios in Tests of Factor Models,
  Working Paper Columbia University.

Bakshi, G., X. Gao, and A. Rossi, 2015, Understanding the Sources of Risk Underlying the
  cross section of Commodity Returns, Working paper University of Maryland.

Basak, Suleyman and Anna Pavlova, 2015, A Model of Financialization of Commodities,
  Wokring Paper, London Business School.

Bessembinder, Hendrik, and Michael L. Lemmon, 2002, Equilibrium Pricing and Optimal
  Hedging in Electricity Forward Markets, Journal of Finance 57, 1347-1382.
  consumption-oriented CAPM, Journal of Finance 44, 231-262.

Brunnermeier, M.K., and L.H. Pedersen, 2009, Market Liquidity and Funding Liquidity,
  Review of Financial Studies 22, 2201-2238.

Cheng, I., A. Kirilenko, and W. Xiong, 2014, Convective risk flows in commodity futures
  markets, Review of Finance 43.

                                            38
Cheng, I., and W. Xiong, 2014, The financialization of commodity markets, Annual Review
  of Financial Economics 6, 419-441.

Cochrane, J.H., 2005, Asset Pricing - Revised Edition, Princeton: Princeton University press.

Cochrane, J.H., 2011, Presidential address: Discount rates, Journal of Finance 66, 1047-
  1108.

Cootner, P., 1960, Returns to Speculators: Telser vs. Keynes, Journal of Political Economy
  68, 396-404.

Cootner, P., 1967, Speculation and hedging, Food Research Institute Studies 7, 65-106.

Daniel, K., S. Titman, 1997, Evidence on the Characteristics of Cross-Sectional Variation in
  Stock Returns, Journal of Finance 52, 1-33.

Daskalaki, C., A. Kostakis, and G. Skiadopoulos, 2014, Are there common factors in com-
  modity futures returns?, Journal of Banking and Finance 40, 346-363.

Deaton, A., and G. Laroque, 1992, On the Behavior of Commodity Prices, Review of Eco-
  nomic Studies, 59, 1-23.

Dewally, M., L. Ederington, and C. Fernando, 2013, Determinants of trader profits in com-
  modity futures markets, Review of Financial Studies 26, 2648-2683.

Erb, C.B., and C.R. Harvey, 2006, The strategic and tactical value of commodity futures,
  Financial Analysts Journal 62 (2), 69-97.

Evans, M.D.D., and R.K. Lyons, 2002, Order flow and exchange rate dynamics, Journal of
  Political Economy 110, 170-180.

Fama, E.F. and K.R. French, 1987, Commodity Futures Prices: Some Evidence on Forecast
  Power, Premiums, and the Theory of Storage, The Journal of Business 60 (1), 55-73.

                                              39
Fama, E.F., K.R. French, 1993, Common Risk Factors in the Returns on Stocks and Bonds,
  Journal of Financial Economics 33, 3-56.

Fama, E.F., and J.D. MacBeth, 1973, Risk, Return, and Equilibrium: Empirical Tests,
  Journal of Political Economy 81, 607-636.

Ferson, W.E., S.Sarkissian, T.T. Simin, 1999, The Alpha Factor Asset Pricing Model: A
  Parable, Journal of Financial Markets 2, 49-68.

Fuertes, A., J. Miffre, and G. Rallis, 2010, Tactical allocation in commodity futures markets:
  Combining momentum and term structure signals, Journal of Banking and Finance 34,
  25302548.

Gorton, Gary B. and K. Geert Rouwenhorst, 2006, Facts and Fantasies About Commodity
  Futures, Financial Analysts Journal 62, 47-68.

Gorton, G.B, F. Hayashi, K.G. Rouwenhorst, 2013, The Fundamentals of Commodity Fu-
  tures Returns, Review of Finance 17, 35-105.

Goyal, A., I. Welch, 2008, A comprehensive look at the empirical performance of equity
  premium prediction, Review of Financial Studies 21, 14551508.

Hirshleifer, David, 1988, Residual Risk, Trading Costs, and Commodity Futures Risk Premia,
  Review of Financial Studies 1, 173-193

Hirshleifer, David, 1989, Determinants of Hedging and Risk Premia in Commodity Futures
  Markets, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 24, 313-331

Hong, H. and M.Yogo, 2012, What does futures market interest tell us about the macroe-
  conomy and asset prices?, Journal of Financial Economics 105 (3), 473-490.

Irwin, S.H., and D.R. Sanders, 2010, Index Funds, Financialization, and Commodity Futures
  Markets, Applied Economic Perspectives and Policy 33, 1-31..

                                              40
Kaldor, N., 1939, Speculation and Economic Stability, Review of Economic Studies 7, 1-27.

Kan, R., Robotti, C., Shanken, J., 2013. Pricing model performance and the two-pass cross-
  sectional regression methodology. Journal of Finance 68, 2617-2649.

Keynes, J.M., 1930, Treatise on money, London: Macmillan.

Koijen, R., T. Moskowitz, L.H. Pedersen, and E.B. Vrugt, 2015, Carry, Working paper
  Chicago Booth.

Kogan, L., D. Livdan, and A. Yaron, 2009, Oil Futures Prices in a Production Economy
  with Investment Constraints, Journal of Finance 64, 1345-1375.

Lewellen, J., S. Nagel, J. Shanken, 2010, A Skeptical Appraisal of Asset Pricing Tests,
  Journal of Financial Economics 96, 175-194.

Lustig, H., N. Roussanov, and A. Verdelhan, 2011, Common Risk Factors in Currency
  Markets, Review of Financial Studies 24, 3731-3777.

Lustig, H., N. Roussanov, and A. Verdelhan, 2013, Countercyclical Currency Risk Premia,
  Journal of Financial Economics 111, 527-553.

Marshall, B.R., N.H. Nguyen, N. Visaltanochoti, 2012, Commodity Liquidity Measurement
  and Transaction Costs, Review of Financial Studies 25, 599-638.

Menkhoff, L., L. Sarno, M. Schmeling, A. Schrimpf, 2012, Carry Trades and Global Foreign
  Exchange Volatility, 2012, Journal of Finance 67, 681-718.

Menkhoff, L., L. Sarno, M. Schmeling, A. Schrimpf 2012, Currency momentum strategies,
  Journal of Financial Economics 106, 660-684.

Miffre, J., 2013, Comparing First, Second and Third Generation Commodity Indices, Work-
  ing paper EDHEC School of Business.

                                            41
Miffre, J., and G. Rallis, 2007, Momentum strategies in commodity futures markets, Journal
  of Banking and Finance 31, 18631886.

Moskowitz, T., Y.H. Ooi, and L.H. Pedersen, 2012, Time series momentum, Journal of
  Financial Economics 104, 228-250.

Neuhierl, A., and A. Thompson, 2014, Trend Following Strategies in Commodity Markets
  and the Impact of Financialization, Working paper Northwestern University.

de Roon, F. A., T.E. Nijman, and C. Veld, 2000, Hedging Pressure Effects in Futures Mar-
  kets, Journal of Finance 55, 1437-1456.

Routledge, B.R., D.J. Seppi, and C.S. Spatt, 2000, Equilibrium Forward Curve for Com-
  modities, Journal of Finance 55, 1297-1338.

Shanken, J., 1992, On the Estimation of Beta-Pricing Models, Review of Financial Studies
  5, 1-33.

Sockin, M., and, W. Xiong, 2015, Informational Frictions and Commodity Markets, Journal
  of Finance 70, 2063-2098.

Stoll, H., and R. Whaley, 2011, Commodity index investing: Speculation or diversification?,
  Journal of Alternative Investments 14, 50-60.

Szymanowska, M., F.A. de Roon, R. van der Goorbergh, and T. Nijman, 2014, An Anatomy
  of Commodity Futures Risk Premia, Journal of Finance 69,453-483.

Tang, Ke, and Wei Xiong, 2012, Index Investing and the Financialization of Commodities,
  Financial Analysts Journal 68, 54-74.

Working, H., 1949, The Theory of the Price of Storage, American Economic Review 39,
  1254-62.


                                            42
Yang, F., 2013, Investment shocks and the commodity basis spread, Journal of Financial
  Economics 110, 164184.




                                         43
                                                                                           High4-Low4 nearby return
                                                           30
                                                                                                                                Basis-momentum
                                                           25                                                                   -1×Basis
                                                                                                                                Momentum
                                                           20

                                                           15

                                                           10

                                                           5
                  20-year average return (% ann.)


                                                           0
                                                           1980        1985        1990     1995              2000      2005   2010          2015




                                                                                          High4-Low4 spreading return
                                                           6


44                                                         4


                                                           2


                                                           0


                                                           -2     Basis-momentum
                                                                  -1×Basis
                         20-year average return (% ann.)

                                                                  Momentum
                                                           -4
                                                           1980        1985        1990     1995              2000      2005   2010          2015




     Figure 1: Twenty-year moving average nearby and spreading returns from commodity sorts
     This figure presents 20-year moving average nearby (top) and spreading (bottom) returns (annualized %’s) for the
     basis-momentum, basis, and momentum factors. These factors are constructed as the top (High4) minus bottom
     (Low4) portfolio from a sort of 21 commodities on each of the respective signals. For the sake of comparison, we
     present the negative of the returns on the basis strategy. The original sample period is August 1960 to February
     2014, such that the first moving average is observed in July 1980.
                                                                                      Basis-momentum
                                0.6
                                           High4
                                           Low4
                                0.4


                                0.2
                  % of months


                                 0
                                      CL   RB      HO   KC   RR   JO   CC   BO   SM    S-    C-     O-   W-   CT   GC   SI   HG   LB   FC   LC   LH




                                                                                            Basis

                                           High4
                                           Low4
                                0.4


                                0.2
                  % of months


                                 0
                                      CL   RB      HO   KC   RR   JO   CC   BO   SM    S-    C-     O-   W-   CT   GC   SI   HG   LB   FC   LC   LH

45
                                                                                        Momentum

                                           High4
                                           Low4
                                0.4


                                0.2
                  % of months


                                 0
                                      CL   RB      HO   KC   RR   JO   CC   BO   SM    S-    C-     O-   W-   CT   GC   SI   HG   LB   FC   LC   LH




     Figure 2: Composition of High4 and Low4 portfolios in commodity sorts
     This figure presents the fraction of months in which a given commodity (see symbols in Table A.1) is either among
     the top four (blue) or bottom four (red) commodities ranked on the three signals of interest: basis-momentum,
     basis, and momentum. The percentages are calculated as a fraction of the total number of months in which a
     given commodity is included in the sample. The sample period is August 1960 to February 2014.
                                                          20                                                                                 20                                                                               20
                                                          15                                                                                 15                                                                               15
                                                          10                                                                                 10                                                                               10
                                                          5                                                                                  5                                                                                5
                                                          0                                                                                  0                                                                                0
                                                          -5                                                                                 -5                                                                               -5
                                                    -10                                                                                -10                                                                              -10
                  Nearby return (% ann.)                                                             Nearby return (% ann.)                                                           Nearby return (% ann.)

                                                    -15                                                                                -15                                                                              -15
                                                    -20                                                                                -20                                                                              -20
                                                                2     4       6     8    10     12                                                2    4      6      8      10   12                                                2       4       6    8    10     12
                                                               Months after basis-momentum sort                                                       Months after basis sort                                                          Months after momentum sort




                                                          6                                                                                  6                                                                                6

46
                                                          4                                                                                  4                                                                                4


                                                          2                                                                                  2                                                                                2


                                                          0                                                                                  0                                                                                0


                                                          -2                                                                                 -2                                                                               -2
                              Spreading return (% ann.)                                                          Spreading return (% ann.)                                                        Spreading return (% ann.)



                                                          -4                                                                                 -4                                                                               -4
                                                                2     4       6     8    10     12                                                2    4      6      8      10   12                                                2       4       6    8    10     12
                                                               Months after basis-momentum sort                                                       Months after basis sort                                                          Months after momentum sort




     Figure 3: Nearby and spreading returns up to one year after portfolio formation
     This figure presents average nearby (top) and spreading (bottom) returns (in annualized %) for the basis-
     momentum, basis, and momentum factors up to one year after portfolio formation (i.e., with the sort performed
     at the end of month t we present average returns (plus two standard errors bands) for months t + 1, ..., t + 12).
     The sample period is August 1960 to February 2014.
Table 1: Commodity portfolios sorted on basis-momentum
This table presents the unconditional performance in both nearby (Panel A) and spread-
ing (Panel B) returns of portfolios sorted on basis-momentum (the difference
                                                                      Qt          between mo-
mentum signals from first- and second-nearby futures strategies:         s=t−11 (1 + RfTut,s
                                                                                        1
                                                                                             )−
Qt              T2                                             T2  T1
         (1 + Rf ut,s )). We also sort commodities on basis (Ft /Ft − 1) and momentum
 Qs=t−11
   t
( s=t−11 (1 + RfTut,s
                  1
                       )) as a benchmark. The High4 and Low4 portfolio contain the top and
bottom four ranked commodities, respectively, whereas the Mid portfolio contains all re-
maining commodities, which number is time-varying. In each post-ranking month t + 1,
the portfolio’s nearby return is the equal-weighted average return of first-nearby contracts,
whereas the spreading return is the equal-weighted average of the difference between the
return of the first-nearby and second-nearby contract. We present results for the full sample
period from August 1960 to February 2014 as well as two sample halves split around January
1986, so that the later sub-sample coincides with Szymanowska et al. (2014).

                                      Basis-momentum                        Basis   Momentum
                            High4     Mid    Low4 High4-Low4             High4-Low4 High4-Low4

                                       Panel A: Nearby returns (RfTut,p,t+1
                                                                   1
                                                                            )

                                       Full sample from 1960-08 to 2014-02
                Avg. ret.   15.60     5.02    -2.78      18.38           -10.61          15.02
                (t)         (6.35)   (2.49) (-1.19)      (6.73)          (-3.88)         (4.61)
                Sharpe       0.87     0.34    -0.16       0.92            -0.53           0.63
                                         Sample from 1960-08 to 1986-01
                Avg. ret.   17.85     7.87    -2.31      20.15           -15.62          15.57
                (t)         (5.30)   (2.43) (-0.63)      (5.40)          (-4.43)         (3.79)
                Sharpe       1.05     0.48    -0.12       1.07            -0.88           0.75
                                         Sample from 1986-02 to 2014-02
                Avg. ret.   13.56     2.43    -3.21      16.77            -6.07          14.53
                (t)         (3.82)   (0.98) (-1.09)      (4.23)          (-1.48)         (2.92)
                Sharpe       0.72     0.18    -0.21       0.80            -0.28           0.55

                               Panel B: Spreading returns (RfTut,p,t+1
                                                              1
                                                                       − RfTut,p,t+1
                                                                            2
                                                                                     )

                                        Full sample from 1960-08 to 2014-02
                Avg. ret.    1.25     -0.06    -2.83       4.08            -0.77          0.53
                (t)         (2.54)   (-0.23) (-6.86)      (6.43)          (-1.13)        (0.82)
                Sharpe       0.35     -0.03    -0.94       0.88            -0.15          0.11
                                          Sample from 1960-08 to 1986-01
                Avg. ret.    2.16     0.41     -0.71       2.88            -1.92          0.72
                (t)         (3.08)   (0.98) (-1.50)       (3.35)          (-1.98)        (0.76)
                Sharpe       0.61      0.19    -0.30       0.66            -0.39          0.15
                                          Sample from 1986-02 to 2014-02
                Avg. ret.    0.42     -0.48    -4.75       5.17             0.27          0.36
                (t)         (0.61)   (-2.00) (-7.42)      (5.60)          (0.28)         (0.41)
                Sharpe       0.11     -0.38    -1.40       1.06            0.05           0.08



                                                        47
Table 2: Double sorts on basis-momentum and control variables
This table presents the unconditional performance in both nearby (Panel A) and spreading
(Panel B) returns when we double sort commodities in four portfolios (with t-statistics
in parentheses). These portfolios are at the intersection of an independent sort into two
basis-momentum groups (split at the median) and two control groups. The control groups
are formed on the basis (split at a basis of zero), six-month average basis (split at zero),
momentum (split at the median), and finally, hedging and spreading pressure (split at the
median, see also the definitions in Section 1.4.1). For the sake of comparison, the first two
columns present the single sort on each of these variables. The last six columns present the
double sort, with the last two columns containing the High-Low basis-momentum return in
each control group. In each post-ranking month t + 1, the portfolio’s nearby return is the
equal-weighted average return of first-nearby contracts, whereas the spreading return is the
equal-weighted average of the difference between the return of the first-nearby and second-
nearby contract. We present results for the full sample period from August 1960 to February
2014 as well as a sample from 1986-02 to 2012-01, dictated by availability of CFTC position
data.

                                Panel A: Average nearby returns (RfTut,p,t+1
                                                                    1
                                                                             )

                                  Single sort on            Double sort on row variable and basis-momentum
                                   row variable                High               Low              High-Low
                                 Avg. ret.    (t)        Avg. ret.   (t)    Avg. ret.    (t)    Avg. ret.  (t)

                                    Full sample from 1960-08 to 2014-02

 Basis-momentum High              12.53      (5.98)
                Low                -1.65     (-0.85)
                Diff              14.18      (7.73)
 Basis          Contango            1.17     (0.63)        8.00    (3.52)     -2.94   (-1.45)    10.93    (5.06)
                Backward.         12.07      (5.16)       14.87    (5.45)      3.59   (1.31)     11.29    (3.36)
                Diff              -10.90     (-5.28)      -6.88    (-2.46)    -6.52   (-2.38)
 12-Month basis Contango           1.53      (0.80)        5.95    (2.70)     -2.16   (-1.04)    8.12     (3.71)
                Backwardation     10.23      (4.08)       15.26    (5.35)      2.69   (0.96)     12.57    (3.57)
                Diff               -8.70     (-3.91)      -9.31    (-3.16)    -4.85   (-1.71)
 Momentum       Winners             9.42     (4.33)       14.43    (6.15)     0.82    (0.30)     13.60    (4.86)
                Losers              1.18     (0.62)        9.01    (3.60)     -3.16   (-1.49)    12.18    (4.95)
                Diff                8.24     (4.22)        5.41    (2.10)      3.99   (1.40)

                                CFTC data sample from 1986-02 to 2012-01

 Hedging pres.     High            3.02      (1.21)        8.20    (2.31)     -0.42   (-0.16)     8.62    (2.49)
                   Low             4.21      (1.47)       12.44    (3.87)     -5.14   (-1.46)    17.58    (5.00)
                   Diff            -1.19     (-0.48)      -4.24    (-1.26)     4.72   (1.42)
 Spreading pres.   High            1.80      (0.71)        9.89    (3.03)     -4.65   (-1.61)    14.55    (4.26)
                   Low             5.22      (1.83)       10.69    (3.11)     -1.09   (-0.34)    11.78    (3.35)
                   Diff            -3.42     (-1.36)      -0.80    (-0.24)    -3.56   (-1.05)

                                                    48
Table 2 continued
                         Panel B: Average spreading returns (RfTut,p,t+1
                                                                1
                                                                         − RfTut,p,t+1
                                                                              2
                                                                                       )

                                   Single sort on            Double sort on row variable and basis-momentum
                                    row variable                High               Low              High-Low
                                  Avg. ret.    (t)        Avg. ret.   (t)    Avg. ret.    (t)    Avg. ret.  (t)

                                    Full sample from 1960-08 to 2014-02

Basis-momentum High                  1.15     (3.82)
               Low                  -1.71     (-6.98)
               Diff                  2.87     (7.83)
Basis          Contango             -0.62     (-3.63)        0.67   (2.64)      -1.45      (-6.44)   2.12   (6.44)
               Backward.             0.06     (0.12)         1.17   (2.07)      -2.34      (-3.68)   3.52   (4.39)
               Diff                 -0.67     (-1.41)       -0.50   (-0.84)      0.90      (1.37)
12-Month basis Contango             -0.99     (-4.62)        0.61   (1.67)      -1.77      (-6.58)   2.38   (5.46)
               Backwardation         0.79     (1.79)         1.49   (2.71)      -0.96      (-2.03)   2.45   (3.57)
               Diff                 -1.78     (-3.77)       -0.88   (-1.40)     -0.81      (-1.52)
Momentum       Winners              -0.11     (-0.32)        0.93   (2.06)      -1.77      (-3.98)   2.70   (4.63)
               Losers               -0.56     (-2.46)        1.33   (3.20)      -1.72      (-6.36)   3.05   (6.34)
               Diff                  0.45     (1.08)        -0.39   (-0.62)     -0.05      (-0.10)

                                CFTC data sample from 1986-02 to 2012-01

Hedging pres.     High              -1.26     (-3.39)        0.27   (0.55)      -2.21      (-4.83)   2.49   (3.85)
                  Low               -1.21     (-3.19)        0.25   (0.49)      -2.96      (-5.82)   3.21   (4.76)
                  Diff              -0.05     (-0.10)        0.03   (0.04)       0.75      (1.19)
Spreading pres.   High              -2.29     (-6.12)       -0.12   (-0.23)     -4.05      (-8.35)   3.94   (5.87)
                  Low               -0.26     (-0.74)        0.59   (1.21)      -1.29      (-2.72)   1.88   (2.96)
                  Diff              -2.03     (-4.31)       -0.71   (-1.08)     -2.77      (-4.54)




                                                     49
Table 3: Pooled regressions of commodity-level returns on lagged characteristics
Panel A and B present results from pooled time series cross-sectional regressions of nearby
and spreading returns (RfTut,i,t+1
                              1
                                   in Panel A; RfTut,i,t+1
                                                     1
                                                            − RfTut,i,t+1
                                                                  2
                                                                          in Panel B) of 21 com-
modities on lagged characteristics (see Equations (13) and (14)). Model (1) includes only
basis-momentum (BMi,t ) as independent variable. Models (2) and (3) add time fixed effects
and commodity fixed effects, respectively. Model (4) adds both fixed effects. Models (5) and
(6) substitute basis (Bi,t ) and momentum (Mi,t ), respectively, for basis-momentum. Model
(7) includes the three characteristics jointly. We present the estimated coefficients on the
characteristics (λ’s) as well as the R2 . t-statistics are presented underneath each estimate
and are calculated using standard errors clustered in the time dimension. We present results
for the full sample period from August 1960 to February 2014 as well as pre- and post-1986
in the last two columns. Panel C presents results for two decompositions of basis-momentum
over the full sample period. In the left block of results, we regress futures returns on (Mi,t )
                                    T2
and second-nearby momentum (Mi,t       ). In the right block of results we regress futures returns
on average curvature and change in slope (see Section 2.3).
                                                                  Full sample                                             Pre-1986   Post-1986
                          (1)           (2)           (3)              (4)         (5)          (6)           (7)           (7)         (7)

                                                Panel A: Nearby returns (RfTut,i,t+1
                                                                            1
                                                                                     )

   λBM                  10.45          9.55         10.25            9.16                                    9.19          10.63       8.22
   (t)                  (7.45)        (7.23)        (7.06)          (6.81)                                  (6.22)         (4.64)     (4.09)
   λB                                                                             -5.89                      3.47           5.41       3.64
   (t)                                                                           (-2.16)                    (1.14)         (1.06)     (0.96)
   λM                                                                                          1.01          0.33           0.36       0.13
   (t)                                                                                        (2.32)        (0.66)         (0.45)     (0.20)
   R2                    0.01          0.18          0.01            0.18         0.18         0.18          0.18           0.22       0.16
   Time dummies           No           Yes            No             Yes          Yes          Yes           Yes            Yes        Yes
   Commodity dummies      No            No           Yes             Yes          Yes          Yes           Yes            Yes        Yes

                                       Panel B: Spreading returns (RfTut,i,t+1
                                                                      1
                                                                               − RfTut,i,t+1
                                                                                    2
                                                                                             )

   λBM                   2.34          1.94          2.16            1.71                                    2.33           1.44        2.75
   (t)                  (6.89)        (5.63)        (6.30)          (4.89)                                  (6.71)        (3.27)      (5.10)
   λB                                                                             0.26                        0.99         -0.03        1.86
   (t)                                                                           (0.24)                     (0.89)        (-0.02)     (1.21)
   λM                                                                                          -0.16         -0.33         -0.33       -0.31
   (t)                                                                                        (-1.22)       (-2.35)       (-1.30)     (-2.45)
   R2                    0.02          0.03          0.02            0.03         0.03          0.03          0.04          0.02        0.05
   Time dummies           No           Yes            No             Yes          Yes           Yes           Yes           Yes         Yes
   Commodity dummies      No            No           Yes             Yes          Yes           Yes           Yes           Yes         Yes

                                     Panel C: Decomposing basis-momentum predictability

                       RfTut,i,t+1
                          1
                                      RfTut,i,t+1
                                         1
                                                  − RfTut,i,t+1
                                                       2
                                                                                RfTut,i,t+1
                                                                                   1
                                                                                              RfTut,i,t+1
                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                          − RfTut,i,t+1
                                                                                                               2




   λM                     9.06          1.87                        λCurv         6.08         1.64
   (t)                  (6.65)        (5.67)                                     (6.24)       (6.07)
   λTM2                  -8.84         -2.23                        λ∆Slope       8.71         1.26
   (t)                  (-5.93)       (-6.50)                                    (2.95)       (1.61)
   R2                     0.18          0.04                                      0.18         0.03
   Time dummies           Yes           Yes                          50           Yes          Yes
   Commodity dummies      Yes           Yes                                       Yes          Yes
Table 4: Basis-momentum across the futures curve
This table presents unconditional performance measures from sorting commodities on alter-
native measures of basis-momentum. We consider the performance of High4-minus-Low4
portfolios in second- and third-nearby futures returns (RfTut,s   2
                                                                      and RfTut,s
                                                                             3
                                                                                  ) as well as spreading
returns between the second- and third-nearby and the third- and fourth-nearby contracts
(RfTut,s
    2
         − RfTut,s
              3
                   and RfTut,s
                          3
                               − RfTut,s
                                    4
                                         ). In the first block of results, commodities are sorted on
our usual measure of basis-momentum, BMt . The next two blocks of results sort commodi-
ties on basis-momentum measured using farther-from-expiring contracts, denoted BMt2,3 and
BMt3,4 , respectively. For these sorts, we also present performance statistics using only those
months where less than or equal to three (out of eight) commodities in the High4 and Low4
portfolios overlap between BMt and one of the two alternative measures (denoted, e.g.,
BMt2,3 |BMt ). The sample period is from August 1960 to February 2014.


                                     Average returns for High4-Low4 portfolio
                                        RfTut,s
                                           2
                                                RfTut,s
                                                   2
                                                        − RfTut,s
                                                             3
                                                                  RfTut,s
                                                                     3
                                                                          RfTut,s
                                                                             3
                                                                                  − RfTut,s
                                                                                       4




         BMt               Avg. Ret.     14.55          2.31         12.42          0.98
                           (t)           (5.88)        (4.57)        (5.35)        (2.06)
                           Sharpe         0.80          0.63          0.73          0.32

         BMt2,3            Avg. Ret.     16.46          2.52
                           (t)           (6.75)        (5.00)
                           Sharpe         0.92          0.68
         BMt2,3 |BMt       Avg. Ret.      7.43          1.58
         (231 Months)      (t)           (1.85)        (1.94)
                           Sharpe         0.42          0.44

         BMt3,4            Avg. Ret.                                 11.96          0.91
                           (t)                                       (4.85)        (1.89)
                           Sharpe                                     0.71          0.28
         BMt3,4 |BMt       Avg. Ret.                                 11.52          0.57
         (361 Months)      (t)                                       (3.69)        (0.97)
                           Sharpe                                     0.67          0.18




                                                  51
Table 5: Average spot and roll returns in commodity sorts
This table decomposes average first-nearby futures returns in sorts on basis-momentum in
two components: the roll return (coming from rolling over to the second-nearby contract once
the first-nearby contract is close to expiration), and the spot return that is calculated by
dividing one plus the first-nearby futures return by one plus the first-nearby roll return. The
roll return equals zero when the strategy does not roll. We also sort commodities on basis and
momentum as a benchmark. The High4 and Low4 portfolios contain the top and bottom four
ranked commodities, the Mid portfolio contains the remaining commodities, which number is
time-varying. In each post-ranking month t + 1, returns and their components are calculated
as equal-weighted averages across the commodities in a portfolio. The sample period is from
August 1960 to February 2014.


                              Basis-momentum                        Basis       Momentum
                   High4      Mid    Low4   High4-Low4           High4-Low4     High4-Low4


  Avg. RfTut,t+1
          1
                    15.60      5.02      -2.78          18.38       -10.61         15.02
  (t)               (6.35)   (2.49)     (-1.19)         (6.73)      (-3.88)        (4.61)
  Avg. Rfspot
          ut,t+1     4.99      9.45       7.82           -2.83       37.92          -7.54
  (t)               (1.98)   (4.69)     (3.17)         (-0.98)     (12.88)        (-2.25)
  Avg. Rfroll
          ut,t+1    11.95     -4.08      -9.57          21.53       -48.90         23.05
  (t)              (11.54)   (-9.64)   (-13.33)        (17.37)     (-35.03)       (20.15)




                                                  52
Table 6: Time-series predictability of spot and roll returns
This table presents an overview of results from time-series predictive regressions of nearby
futures returns, as well as their spot and roll components, on lagged basis-momentum (see
Equations (19), (20), (21)). To be precise, we count the number of positive and negative
                       spot        roll
coefficients (ηBM , ηBM     , and ηBM   ) out of 21 in each of these regressions. Following the
approach of Fama and French (1987), the left hand side first-nearby returns are log holding
period returns, which equal the sum of the first-nearby roll return at the beginning of the
holding period and the spot return of the first-nearby contract over the holding period, i.e.,
in between two roll dates. As a benchmark, we also present the counts when using as signal
Xi,t either basis (Bi,t ) or momentum (Mi,t ). We test significance at the 10%-level using White
heteroskedasticity-robust standard errors. Note, given that we measure the basis using the
price difference of two futures contract it is exactly equal to the negative of the roll return
of the first-nearby strategy. For this reason, we omit the test of significance here.


                       Signal Xi,t =        BMi,t    Bi,t        Mi,t

                       Panel A: Nearby returns (rfTut,i,t+1:t+T
                                                   1
                                                               1
                                                                 ) on Xi,t

                       # ηX > 0               19       8          14
                       # tηX > 1.65           12       1          4
                       # ηX ≤ 0                2      13           7
                       # tηX ≤ −1.65          0        6           1

                        Panel B: Spot returns (rfspot
                                                  ut,i,t+1:t+T1 ) on Xi,t

                          spot
                       # ηX     >0            10      19           3
                       # tηspot > 1.65         1      15           0
                           X
                          spot
                       # ηX     ≤0            11       2          18
                       # tηspot ≤ −1.65        2       0           6
                            X



                         Panel C: Roll returns (rfroll
                                                   ut,i,t+1:t+T1 ) on Xi,t

                          roll
                       # ηX      >0           19      0           20
                       # tηXroll > 1.65       18     NA           19
                          roll
                       # ηX      ≤0            2     21           1
                       # tηXroll ≤ −1.65       0     NA           0



                                                53
Table 7: Currency portfolios sorted on basis-momentum
This table presents the unconditional performance of currency portfolios sorted on basis-
momentum (the difference
                      Qt    between momentum   Qt signals from    one- and two-month currency
                                       1                      1   2
forward strategies: s=t−2 (1 + Ss /Fs−1 ) − s=t−2 (1 + Fs /Fs−1 )). We also sort currencies
on basis (Ft1 /St − 1) and momentum ( ts=t−2 (1 + Ss /Fs−1 1
                                         Q
                                                              )) as a benchmark. The portfolios
are equal-weighted and contain a subset of a total of 48 currencies with spot as well as one-
and two-month forward prices available in Datastream. Nearby (Panel A) and spreading
                                     1
(Panel B) returns are defined as: rcur,t+1   = St+1 /Ft1 (the return from buying a currency at
                                       spread
the one month forward price) and rcur,t+1         1
                                              = rcur,t+1      1
                                                         − Ft+1  /Ft2 (which subtracts from the
nearby return the return from closing a two-month currency forward contract one month
after initiation). The High4 and Low4 portfolio contain the top and bottom four ranked
currencies, respectively, whereas the Mid portfolio contains all remaining currencies, which
number is time-varying. We present results for the sample period from April 1997 to August
2015, dictated by data availability.


                           Basis-momentum                        Basis       Momentum
                  High4    Mid    Low4 High4-Low4             High4-Low4     High4-Low4

                                                               1
                    Panel A: Nearby currency forward returns (rcur,t+1 )

     Avg. Ret.     6.22     1.35     -1.84      8.06             -9.99           6.78
     (t)          (2.78)   (0.75)   (-0.83)    (3.47)           (-4.45)         (2.49)
     Sharpe        0.65     0.18     -0.19      0.81             -1.04           0.58

                                                                 spread
                   Panel B: Spreading currency forward returns (rcur,t+1 )

     Avg. Ret.     0.53     0.09     -0.25      0.78             -1.03           0.13
     (t)          (2.07)   (2.64)   (-1.10)    (2.32)           (-3.17)         (0.56)
     Sharpe        0.48     0.62     -0.26      0.54             -0.74           0.13




                                              54
     Table 8: Volatility and basis-momentum portfolios
     This table presents the result from two tests that link basis-momentum-sorted portfolios to volatility. Aggregate
     commodity market variance, vartmkt , is calculated as the sum of squared daily returns on an equal-weighted
     commodity index, and average commodity market variance, vartavg , is calculated as the equal weighted average of
     the sum of squared daily returns of individual commodities. Both variance series are winsorized at the 1%-level
     and standardized to accommodate interpretation. Panel A presents coefficient estimates, vvar , from time series
     regressions of basis-momentum (nearby and spreading) portfolio returns (compounded over horizons of k = 1, 6, 12
     months) on lagged variance. Panel B presents coefficient estimates, nuvar , from time series regressions of nearby
     and spreading returns on contemporaneous monthly innovations in the variance series. To conserve space, we
     present only the estimated coefficient, v1 , with its t-statistic computed using Newey-West standard errors with k
     lags. The sample period is August 1960 to February 2014.
                                             Panel A: Does volatility predict basis-momentum portfolio returns?

                                1                                                                    1                 2
             Nearby returns (RfTut,p,t+1:t+k )                                 Spreading returns (RfTut,p,t+1:t+k − RfTut,p,t+1:t+k )
      k        1                                    6                   12       1                                                  6           12
55           High4    Mid      Low4 High4-Low4 High4-Low4           High4-Low4 High4    Mid      Low4 High4-Low4 High4-Low4                 High4-Low4

       mkt
      vvar    2.25      -1.02     -5.31     7.56          7.25          5.78       -0.39     -0.41     -1.24        0.85            1.20       1.27
      (t)    (0.52)    (-0.27)   (-1.42)   (1.85)        (2.13)        (1.91)     (-0.86)   (-1.16)   (-2.73)      (1.16)          (1.74)     (3.02)
      R2      0.00      0.00       0.01     0.01          0.05          0.05        0.00     0.00       0.01        0.00            0.02       0.04

       avg
      vvar    2.05      -2.03     -5.04     7.09          5.64          4.60       -0.66     -0.37     -1.58        0.92            1.37       1.53
      (t)    (0.60)    (-0.66)   (-1.39)   (1.94)        (1.81)        (1.59)     (-1.32)   (-0.99)   (-3.89)      (1.33)          (2.18)     (3.59)
      R2      0.00      0.00       0.01     0.01          0.03          0.03        0.00     0.00       0.02        0.00            0.03       0.07

                                             Panel B: Are basis-momentum portfolios exposed to volatility risk?

                                1                                                                       1             2
             Nearby returns (RfTut,p,t+1 )                                        Spreading returns (RfTut,p,t+1 − RfTut,p,t+1 )
             High4    Mid      Low4 High4-Low4                                    High4    Mid      Low4 High4-Low4

       mkt
      νvar    -7.78     -2.13     0.87      -8.65                                  -0.18     -0.57     -0.14        -0.03
      (t)    (-1.83)   (-0.54)   (0.19)    (-3.14)                                (-0.46)   (-2.56)   (-0.35)      (-0.05)

       avg
      νvar    -1.68     -0.12     1.14      -2.82                                  -0.02     -0.10     0.14         -0.16
      (t)    (-1.12)   (-0.10)   (0.84)    (-2.63)                                (-0.11)   (-1.12)   (0.78)       (-0.62)
Table 9: Basis-momentum factors versus benchmark commodity factors
Panel A of this table presents summary statistics for the basis-momentum nearby and spread-
                                                       nearby                         spread
ing factors, which are constructed as the nearby (RBM,t+1     ) and spreading (RBM,t+1        ) return
of the High4-minus-Low4 portfolio from univariate sorts of 21 commodities (see Table 1).
To benchmark these new factors, we also present summary statistics for the factors in two
recently developed commodity pricing models. The first model (1) of Szymanowska et al.
(2014) contains three factors, which are all constructed from a sort on the basis: (i) the
                                                                nearby
nearby return for the High4-minus-Low4 basis portfolio (RB,t+1         ), (ii) the spreading return
                                 spread
of the High4 basis portfolio (RB,High4,t+1 ), and (iii) the spreading return of the Low4 basis
             spread
portfolio (RB,Low4,t+1 ). The second model (2) of Bakshi et al. (2015) contains three nearby
                                                              nearby
return factors: (i) a market index (“the average factor”, RAV    G,t+1 ), (ii) the nearby return for
the High4-minus-Low4 basis portfolio (as in the model of de Szymanowska et al. (2014)), and
                                                                                    nearby
(iii) the nearby return for the High4-minus-Low4 momentum portfolio (RM,t+1                ). Panel B
presents spanning tests that ask whether the basis-momentum factors provide an abnormal
return over these two benchmark models. We present results for the full sample period from
August 1960 to February 2014. The last two columns of Panel B summarize the spanning
regressions for two subsamples, split around January 1986. t-statistics are presented under-
neath each estimate and are calculated using Newey-West standard errors with lag length
one.

                                                             Panel A: Summary statistics
                                                                                                          Correlations
                                                                              nearby     nearby    nearby        nearby    spread      spread
                        Avg. ret.   St.Dev.     Skew.     Kurt.    AR(1)     RBM,t+1    RB,t+1  , RAV G,t+1    RM,t+1     RBM,t+1     RB,High4,t+1

     nearby
    RBM,t+1              18.38       19.99       0.24     5.15      0.09
     nearby
    RB,t+1  (1),(2)      -10.61      20.01       0.28      6.60     0.04        -0.43
     nearby
    RAV G,t+1 (2)          5.00      12.96       0.31      7.90     0.03        0.04     -0.06
     nearby
    RM,t+1  (2)          15.02       23.85       0.07     4.35      0.07         0.27    -0.38       0.10
     spread
    RBM,t+1                4.08       4.65       0.17      5.54     0.05         0.50    -0.26      -0.01       0.17
     spread
    RB,High4,t+1  (1)     -1.11       2.50       0.23      5.55     0.11        -0.19     0.36       0.14       -0.15       -0.29
     spread
    RB,Low4,t+1  (1)      -0.34       4.39      -0.90     11.38     0.05         0.18    -0.36       0.01       0.12         0.32        0.01

                                                            Panel B: Spanning regressions

                                                       Full sample                                            Pre-1986    Post-1986
                          αBM       βBnearby    spread
                                               βB,High4     spread
                                                          βB,Low4   nearby
                                                                   βAV G
                                                                              nearby
                                                                             βM           R2                    αBM         αBM

                                                    Basis-momentum nearby factor
     nearby
    RBM,t+1              13.82       -0.39      -0.43     0.19                           0.18                   11.93      14.10
                         (5.46)     (-6.62)    (-1.31)   (1.04)                                                 (3.40)     (3.72)
     nearby
    RBM,t+1              12.76       -0.38                       0.01     0.11           0.19                   12.49      12.46
                         (5.09)     (-6.29)                     (0.06)   (2.16)                                 (3.51)     (3.65)

                                                   Basis-momentum spreading factor
     spread
    RBM,t+1               3.49       -0.01      -0.52     0.32                           0.19                    1.49       4.50
                         (6.11)     (-1.29)    (-6.77)   (5.26)                                                 (2.05)     (5.43)
     spread
    RBM,t+1               3.32       -0.05                       -0.01    0.02           0.07                    1.65       4.61
                         (5.35)     (-5.73)                     (-0.60) (1.80)                                  (1.96)     (5.19)



                                                                           56
     Table 10: Cross-sectional asset pricing tests for commodity factor models
     This table presents cross-sectional asset pricing tests for six candidate commodity factor models. The first model
                                                                           nearby
     of Szymanowska et al. (2014) contains the basis nearby factor (RB,t+1        ) as well as the spreading return of both
                                                spread            spread
     the High4 and Low4 basis portfolio (RB,High4,t+1 and RB,Low4,t+1 ). The second model of Bakshi et al. (2015)
                                                                                   nearby                       nearby
     contains three nearby factors: a market index (“the average factor”, RAV         G,t+1 ), a basis factor (RB,t+1 ), and a
                            nearby                                                                                  nearby
     momentum factor (RM,t+1       ). The third and fourth model add the basis-momentum nearby factor (RBM,t+1             ) to
     these two models. The fifth model is a two-factor model including the average commodity market index and the
     basis-momentum nearby factor. The sixth model adds the basis-momentum spreading factor to this specification
        spread
     (RBM,t+1  ). The portfolio-level test in Panel A regresses the average returns of 32 commodity-sorted portfolios
     (that is, the nearby and spreading return of 9 portfolios sorted on basis-momentum, basis, and momentum (the
     High4, Mid, and Low4 portfolio from each of these sorts) and 7 sector portfolios (Energy, Grains, Industrial
     Materials, Meats, Metals, Oilseeds, and Softs)) on their full sample exposures. The commodity-level test in Panel
     B conducts monthly Fama and MacBeth (1973) cross-sectional regressions of the nearby and spreading returns
     of 21 commodities on their historical exposure, estimated over a one year rolling window of daily returns. Due
     to the staggered introduction of commodities in the sample, the size of the cross-section is also time-varying. We
57   present the estimated prices of risk (γ) with corresponding t-statistics in parentheses underneath each estimate
     (the standard errors are calculated following Shanken (1992) in Panel A and Fama and MacBeth (1973) in Panel
     B). Also, we present the cross-sectional R2 and the mean absolute pricing error (M AP E, in brackets), which is
     further decomposed in the M AP E among nearby returns and spreading returns. These measures follow from a
     regression of average returns on full sample betas in Panel A and average returns on average betas in Panel B. We
     present results for the full sample period from August 1960 to February 2014, but also summarize the evidence for
     two subsamples, split around January 1986, focusing on the price of risk for the nearby basis-momentum factor
     and cross-sectional fit.
     Table 10 continued

                                                         Full sample                                                               Pre- versus post-1986

                          nearby               nearby    nearby    spread    spread     spread                            nearby               nearby
                 γ0      γBM       γBnearby   γAV G     γM        γBM       γB,High4   γB,Low4     R2     M AP Enearby   γBM          R2      γBM         R2
                                                                                                 M AP E   M AP Espread              M AP E              M AP E

                                                         Panel A: Portfolio-level test with full sample betas

     Model 1    0.42               -20.75                                    1.32       -1.94     0.65       [3.04]                   0.69                  0.56
               (0.66)              (-6.38)                                  (1.02)     (-1.15)   [2.18]      [1.33]                  [2.39]                [2.40]
     Model 2    -0.78              -15.81      5.27     15.79                                     0.80       [2.27]                   0.75                  0.75
               (-2.94)             (-5.49)    (2.90)    (4.76)                                   [1.53]      [0.78]                  [1.84]                [1.88]
     Model 3    0.23     18.20     -16.86                                    1.61       -2.28     0.79       [2.25]      17.76        0.80    19.69         0.72
               (0.37)    (5.78)    (-5.22)                                  (1.22)     (-1.34)   [1.76]      [1.27]      (3.76)      [1.96]   (4.16)       [1.90]
     Model 4    -0.88    17.86     -12.60      5.35     15.13                                     0.92       [1.38]      21.72        0.91    16.17         0.81
               (-3.36)   (5.79)    (-4.42)    (2.95)    (4.55)                                   [1.05]      [0.73]      (4.88)      [1.17]   (3.76)       [1.61]
     Model 5    -0.98    21.11                 5.56                                               0.85       [2.08]      23.87        0.88    20.18         0.73
58             (-3.65)   (6.71)               (3.06)                                             [1.38]      [0.67]      (5.57)      [1.30]   (4.17)       [1.85]
     Model 6    -1.08    20.42                 5.55                6.34                           0.87       [1.71]      22.90        0.89    20.26         0.74
               (-3.71)   (6.41)               (3.05)              (3.82)                         [1.30]      [0.89]      (5.36)      [1.40]   (4.26)       [1.82]

                                                         Panel B: Commodity-level test with historical betas

     Model 1    1.36               -15.76                                    0.86       1.25      0.55       [2.78]                   0.20                  0.63
               (1.87)              (-3.92)                                  (0.70)     (0.79)    [2.28]      [1.78]                  [3.45]                [2.12]
     Model 2    -0.03              -17.73      4.43      -1.53                                    0.80       [2.04]                   0.44                  0.79
               (-0.08)             (-4.02)    (2.42)    (-0.34)                                  [1.53]      [1.03]                  [2.60]                [1.79]
     Model 3    1.41     15.94     -14.05                                    0.35       -0.09     0.54       [2.74]      11.68        0.23     19.58        0.70
               (2.12)    (4.05)    (-3.31)                                  (0.29)     (-0.06)   [2.25]      [1.77]      [2.10]      [3.25]    [3.51]      [2.04]
     Model 4    -0.05    15.99     -15.87      4.50      -0.25                                    0.82       [1.84]      10.43        0.45     21.32        0.80
               (-0.14)   (3.99)    (-3.43)    (2.49)    (-0.05)                                  [1.41]      [0.99]      [1.87]      [2.53]    [3.75]      [1.75]
     Model 5    0.10     14.79                 4.22                                               0.74       [2.69]      13.84        0.36     15.67        0.68
               (0.23)    (4.00)               (2.32)                                             [1.80]      [0.91]      [2.73]      [2.88]    [2.94]      [2.13]
     Model 6    0.37     16.01                 3.92                2.35                           0.78       [2.51]      15.23        0.42     16.89        0.70
               (0.90)    (4.36)               (2.17)              (1.64)                         [1.55]      [0.60]      [2.99]      [2.63]    [3.21]      [1.95]
Table 11: Cross-sectional asset pricing tests: Basis-momentum versus volatility
risk
This table conducts portfolio-level cross-sectional regressions to test the relation between
the pricing of basis-momentum and volatility risk. We consider five models. The first model
                                        nearby
contains the average nearby factor (RAV    G,t+1 ) as well as the basis-momentum nearby factor
   nearby
(RBM,t+1 ). The second and third model replace the basis-momentum factor with non-traded
                                                                                           mkt
innovations in aggregate and average commodity market variance, respectively, i.e., ∆vart+1
           avg
and ∆vart+1    . In models four and five, we include both basis-momentum and the volatility
risk factors. We regress the average returns of 32 commodity-sorted portfolios (that is, the
nearby and spreading return of 9 portfolios sorted on basis-momentum, basis, and momentum
(the High4, Mid, and Low4 portfolio from these sorts) and 7 sector portfolios (Energy, Grains,
Industrial Materials, Meats, Metals, Oilseeds, and Softs)) on their full sample exposures.
We present the estimated prices of risk (γ) with corresponding Shanken (1992) t-statistics in
parentheses underneath each estimate. Also, we present the cross-sectional R2 and the mean
absolute pricing error (M AP E, in brackets), which is further decomposed in the M AP E
among nearby returns and spreading returns. We present results for the full sample period
from August 1960 to February 2014.

                            nearby    nearby     mkt       avg
                    γ0     γAV G     γBM        γvar      γvar       R2     M AP Enearby
                                                                   M AP E   M AP Espread

       Model 1    -0.98     5.56     21.11                          0.85       [2.08]
                 (-3.65)   (3.06)    (6.71)                        [1.38]      [0.67]
       Model 2    -1.41     6.60                -0.08               0.64       [3.27]
                 (-4.37)   (3.58)              (-3.57)             [2.12]      [0.98]
       Model 3    -1.11     6.48                          -0.24     0.65       [3.13]
                 (-3.09)   (3.49)                        (-3.38)   [2.03]      [0.93]
       Model 4    -1.06     5.75     20.60      -0.02               0.85       [1.99]
                 (-4.04)   (3.17)    (6.80)    (-0.80)             [1.34]      [0.69]
       Model 5    -1.04     5.85     20.45                -0.08     0.86       [1.90]
                 (-3.83)   (3.21)    (6.55)              (-1.21)   [1.29]      [0.68]




                                               59
Internet Appendix

   This Internet Appendix presents additional empirical evidence. A number of these tables
are identical to one in the paper, albeit using a larger sample of 32 commodities. The excep-
tions are Tables A.5 and A.7, which provide additional evidence from time series predictive
regressions for individual commodities, and Table A.8 which relates basis and momentum
returns to volatility.




                                             60
Table A.1: Overview of commodity futures contracts
This table presents the sample of returns of first- and second-nearby futures strategies
(RfTut,t+1
     1
           and RfTut,t+1
                  2
                         ) for 32 commodity futures, divided over seven sectors: Energy, Grains,
Industrial Material, Meats, Metals, Oilseeds, and Softs. The table lists for each commodity:
sector, symbol, whether it belongs to the smaller sample of Szymanowska et al. (2014), the
first observation of a return on the second-nearby contract, as well as average return and
standard deviation for both contracts.
                                         In small                   RfTut,t+1
                                                                       1
                                                                                       RfTut,t+1
                                                                                          1


  Name                Sector  Mnemonic   sample?    First obs. Avg. ret. St. dev. Avg. ret. St. dev.
  Crude Oil          Energy     CL          Y        198304     11.68       32.83  11.99       30.77
  Gasoline           Energy    HU/RB        Y        198501     18.18       34.57  16.03       31.28
  Heating Oil        Energy     HO          Y        197904      9.63       30.98   8.61       29.38
  Natural Gas        Energy     NG          N        199005     -5.18       49.62  -0.20       42.44
  Gas-Oil-Petroleum  Energy     LF          N        198909     13.35       30.69  12.53       29.02
  Propane            Energy     PN          N        198710     23.38       46.89  20.41       39.31
  Rough Rice          Grains    RR          Y        198609     -3.54       27.68   1.20       26.04
  Sugar               Grains    SB          N        196102      6.54       42.82   8.02       39.01
  Corn                Grains     C-         Y        195908     -1.28       23.92   0.07       23.05
  Oats                Grains     O-         Y        195908      0.24       29.28   0.28       26.91
  Wheat               Grains    W-          Y        195908     -0.87       24.80   0.80       23.90
  Canola              Grains    WC          N        197702     -0.38       21.99   0.87       20.58
  Barley              Grains    WA          N        198906     -1.16       22.01   1.78       22.05
  Cotton            Ind. Mat.   CT          Y        195908      2.40       23.68   3.96       22.10
  Lumber            Ind. Mat.   LB          Y        196911     -4.11       27.37  -1.72       23.27
  Rubber            Ind. Mat.   YR          N        199202      4.61       32.74   3.45       31.48
  Feeder Cattle       Meats     FC          Y        197112      3.69       16.24   5.35       15.58
  Live Cattle         Meats     LC          Y        196412      5.02       16.21   4.66       14.19
  Lean Hogs           Meats     LH          Y        196603      4.36       25.13   7.74       22.53
  Pork Bellies        Meats     PB          N        196204      2.88       33.27   4.78       30.91
  Gold                Metals    GC          Y        197501      1.50       19.58   1.45       19.63
  Silver              Metals     SI         Y        196307      4.26       31.35   4.47       31.32
  Copper              Metals    HG          Y        195908     11.66       26.79  10.61       25.36
  Palladium           Metals    PA          N        197702     12.08       35.12  13.04       33.70
  Platinum            Metals    PL          N        196902      5.22       27.56   5.12       27.66
  Soybean Oil        Oilseeds   BO          Y        195908      6.65       29.33   6.14       28.05
  Soybean Meal       Oilseeds   SM          Y        195908      9.91       29.02  10.24       28.03
  Soybeans           Oilseeds    S-         Y        195908      6.04       25.86   7.36       25.60
  Coffee               Softs    KC          Y        197209      6.68       37.68   5.17       35.47
  Orange Juice         Softs    JO          Y        196703      5.53       32.79   5.28       31.54
  Cocoa                Softs    CC          Y        195908      3.40       30.86   3.23       29.28
  Milk                 Softs    DE          N        199602      5.67       23.91   6.08       18.02




                                               61
Table A.2: Commodity portfolios sorted on basis-momentum (32 commodities)
This table is similar to Table 1 in the paper, but uses the larger cross-section of 32 com-
modities. This table presents the unconditional performance in both nearby (Panel A) and
spreading (Panel B) returns of portfolios sorted on basis-momentum (the
                                                                      Qt difference between
momentum signals from first- and second-nearby futures strategies: s=t−11 (1 + RfTut,s  1
                                                                                          )−
Qt              T2                                             T2  T1
         (1 + Rf ut,s )). We also sort commodities on basis (Ft /Ft − 1) and momentum
 Qs=t−11
   t
( s=t−11 (1 + RfTut,s
                  1
                       )) as a benchmark. The High4 and Low4 portfolio contain the top and
bottom four ranked commodities, respectively, whereas the Mid portfolio contains all re-
maining commodities, which number is time-varying. In each post-ranking month t + 1,
the portfolio’s nearby return is the equal-weighted average return of first-nearby contracts,
whereas the spreading return is the equal-weighted average of the difference between the
return of the first-nearby and second-nearby contract. We present results for the full sample
period from August 1960 to February 2014 as well as two sample halves split around January
1986, so that the later sub-sample coincides with Szymanowska et al. (2014).

                                        Basis-momentum                        Basis        Momentum
                              High4     Mid    Low4 High4-Low4             High4-Low4      High4-Low4

                                         Panel A: Nearby returns (RfTut,p,t+1
                                                                     1
                                                                              )

                                         Full sample from 1960-08 to 2014-02
                  Avg. ret.   20.46     4.12    -1.63      22.09            -7.68            18.65
                  (t)         (7.42)   (2.12) (-0.63)      (6.98)          (-2.52)           (5.01)
                  Sharpe       1.01     0.29    -0.09       0.95            -0.34             0.68
                                           Sample from 1960-08 to 1986-01
                  Avg. ret.   20.75     6.19    -3.14      23.89           -13.16            20.07
                  (t)         (5.61)   (1.99) (-0.78)      (5.81)          (-3.13)           (3.98)
                  Sharpe       1.11     0.39    -0.15       1.15            -0.62             0.79
                                           Sample from 1986-02 to 2014-02
                  Avg. ret.   20.20     2.24    -0.25      20.45            -2.71            17.35
                  (t)         (4.98)   (0.93) (-0.08)      (4.30)          (-0.62)           (3.19)
                  Sharpe       0.94     0.18    -0.01       0.81            -0.12             0.60

                                 Panel B: Spreading returns (RfTut,p,t+1
                                                                1
                                                                         − RfTut,p,t+1
                                                                              2
                                                                                       )

                                          Full sample from 1960-08 to 2014-02
                  Avg. ret.    1.71     -0.22    -3.33       5.04            -0.55            0.03
                  (t)         (2.80)   (-1.05) (-6.57)      (6.40)          (-0.66)          (0.03)
                  Sharpe       0.38     -0.14    -0.90       0.87            -0.09            0.00
                                            Sample from 1960-08 to 1986-01
                  Avg. ret.    1.75     0.13     -1.17       2.92            -1.48            1.01
                  (t)         (2.40)   (0.37) (-1.79)       (3.04)          (-1.43)          (0.98)
                  Sharpe       0.47      0.07    -0.35       0.60            -0.28            0.19
                                            Sample from 1986-02 to 2014-02
                  Avg. ret.    1.68     -0.53    -5.28       6.96             0.30            -0.87
                  (t)         (1.74)   (-2.20) (-7.08)      (5.73)          (0.23)           (-0.79)
                  Sharpe       0.33     -0.42    -1.34       1.08            0.04             -0.15




                                                          62
Table A.3: Double sorts on basis-momentum and control variables (32 commodi-
ties)
This table is similar to Table 2 in the paper, but uses the larger cross-section of 32 com-
modities. This table presents the unconditional performance in both nearby (Panel A) and
spreading (Panel B) returns when we double sort commodities in four portfolios (with t-
statistics in parentheses). These portfolios are at the intersection of an independent sort
into two basis-momentum groups (split at the median) and two control groups. The control
groups are formed on the basis (split at a basis of zero), six-month average basis (split at
zero), momentum (split at the median), and finally, hedging and spreading pressure (split at
the median, see also the definitions in Section 1.4.1). For the sake of comparison, the first
two columns present the single sort on each of these variables. The last six columns present
the double sort, with the last two columns containing the High-Low basis-momentum return
in each control group. In each post-ranking month t + 1, the portfolio’s nearby return is
the equal-weighted average return of first-nearby contracts, whereas the spreading return
is the equal-weighted average of the difference between the return of the first-nearby and
second-nearby contract. We present results for the full sample period from August 1960 to
February 2014 as well as a sample from 1986-02 to 2012-01, dictated by availability of CFTC
position data.

                                Panel A: Average nearby returns (RfTut,p,t+1
                                                                    1
                                                                             )

                                  Single sort on           Double sort on row variable and basis-momentum
                                   row variable               High               Low              High-Low
                                 Avg. ret.    (t)       Avg. ret.   (t)    Avg. ret.    (t)    Avg. ret.  (t)

                                    Full sample from 1960-08 to 2014-02

 Basis-momentum High               13.22     (6.22)
                Low                -2.00     (-1.01)
                Diff               15.22     (8.32)
 Basis          Contango            1.80     (0.94)       8.84    (3.91)     -2.98   (-1.45)    11.82    (5.69)
                Backward.          11.49     (4.96)      17.70    (6.79)      1.43   (0.49)     16.27    (4.98)
                Diff               -9.69     (-4.71)     -8.85    (-3.34)    -4.41   (-1.56)
 12-Month basis Contango            2.47     (1.25)       9.10    (3.59)     -2.14   (-1.01)    11.24    (4.63)
                Backwardation       9.48     (4.02)      16.03    (5.94)     -1.38   (-0.46)    17.40    (5.27)
                Diff               -7.01     (-3.28)     -6.93    (-2.38)    -0.76   (-0.26)
 Momentum       Winners            11.30     (5.01)      17.20    (6.97)      1.60   (0.58)     15.60    (5.81)
                Losers             -0.12     (-0.06)      5.27    (2.18)     -3.66   (-1.74)     8.93    (3.73)
                Diff               11.42     (5.71)      11.93    (4.57)      5.26   (1.91)

                                CFTC data sample from 1986-02 to 2012-01

 Hedging pres.     High            3.46      (1.38)      10.38    (3.09)     -1.59   (-0.60)    11.97    (3.54)
                   Low             5.10      (1.82)      12.74    (3.75)     -3.94   (-1.17)    16.68    (4.54)
                   Diff            -1.63     (-0.66)     -2.36    (-0.68)     2.35   (0.72)
 Spreading pres.   High            1.62      (0.64)       9.53    (2.94)     -4.51   (-1.56)    14.04    (4.29)
                   Low             6.87      (2.49)63    13.50    (3.85)      1.24   (0.37)     12.27    (3.20)
                   Diff            -5.25     (-2.15)     -3.97    (-1.19)    -5.74   (-1.68)
Table A.3 continued
                         Panel B: Average spreading returns (RfTut,p,t+1
                                                                1
                                                                         − RfTut,p,t+1
                                                                              2
                                                                                       )

                                   Single sort on            Double sort on row variable and basis-momentum
                                    row variable                High               Low              High-Low
                                  Avg. ret.    (t)        Avg. ret.   (t)    Avg. ret.    (t)    Avg. ret.  (t)

                                    Full sample from 1960-08 to 2014-02

Basis-momentum High                  1.15     (3.79)
               Low                  -1.82     (-7.15)
               Diff                  2.97     (7.89)
Basis          Contango             -0.60     (-3.29)        0.73   (3.18)      -1.56      (-5.86)   2.29   (6.70)
               Backward.            -0.19     (-0.42)        1.46   (2.58)      -2.89      (-4.77)   4.35   (5.44)
               Diff                 -0.42     (-0.89)       -0.73   (-1.24)      1.33      (2.05)
12-Month basis Contango             -0.82     (-3.68)        0.90   (2.21)      -1.91      (-6.48)   2.81   (5.76)
               Backwardation         0.56     (1.35)         1.60   (3.11)      -1.60      (-3.25)   3.20   (4.67)
               Diff                 -1.38     (-3.02)       -0.71   (-1.14)     -0.32      (-0.56)
Momentum       Winners              -0.05     (-0.14)        1.35   (2.97)      -1.98      (-4.88)   3.33   (5.74)
               Losers               -0.66     (-2.83)        1.11   (2.99)      -1.72      (-5.68)   2.83   (6.02)
               Diff                  0.62     (1.58)         0.25   (0.42)      -0.26      (-0.54)

                                CFTC data sample from 1986-02 to 2012-01

Hedging pres.     High              -0.96     (-2.35)        0.85   (1.39)      -2.08      (-4.24)   2.93   (3.79)
                  Low               -1.19     (-3.18)        0.83   (1.38)      -3.42      (-6.40)   4.25   (5.44)
                  Diff               0.22     (0.45)         0.02   (0.02)       1.34      (1.97)
Spreading pres.   High              -2.15     (-5.56)       -0.24   (-0.42)     -3.79      (-7.60)   3.54   (4.84)
                  Low               -0.07     (-0.17)        1.50   (2.33)      -1.47      (-2.63)   2.97   (3.53)
                  Diff              -2.08     (-4.13)       -1.74   (-2.17)     -2.31      (-3.29)




                                                     64
Table A.4: Pooled regressions of commodity-level returns on lagged characteris-
tics (32 commodities)
This table is similar to Table 3 in the paper, but uses the larger cross-section of 32 com-
modities. Panel A and B present results from pooled time series cross-sectional regressions of
nearby and spreading futures returns (RfTut,i,t+1
                                            1
                                                   in Panel A; RfTut,i,t+1
                                                                  1
                                                                           −RfTut,i,t+1
                                                                               2
                                                                                        in Panel B) of
32 commodities on lagged characteristics (see Equations (13) and (14)). Model (1) includes
only basis-momentum (BMi,t ) as independent variable. Models (2) and (3) add time fixed
effects and commodity fixed effects, respectively. Model (4) adds both fixed effects. Models
(5) and (6) substitute basis (Bi,t ) and momentum (Mi,t ), respectively, for basis-momentum.
Model (7) includes three characteristics jointly. We present the estimated coefficients on
the characteristics (λ’s) as well as the R2 . t-statistics are presented underneath each esti-
mate and are calculated using standard errors clustered in the time dimension. We present
results for the full sample period from August 1960 to February 2014 as well as pre- and
post-1986. Panel C presents results for two decompositions of basis-momentum over the full
sample period. In the left block of results, we regress futures returns on (Mi,t ) and second-
                        T2
nearby momentum (Mi,t      ). In the right block of results we regress futures returns on average
curvature and change in slope (see Section 2.3).
                                                                      Full sample                                             Pre-1986   Post-1986
                              (1)           (2)           (3)              (4)         (5)          (6)           (7)           (7)         (7)

                                                    Panel A: Nearby returns (RfTut,i,t+1
                                                                                1
                                                                                         )

       λBM                   9.69          9.01          9.36            8.50                                    8.06          10.92       6.59
       (t)                  (7.40)        (7.33)        (6.94)          (6.84)                                  (6.02)         (4.88)     (3.98)
       λB                                                                             -5.47                      2.34           3.89       2.58
       (t)                                                                           (-2.14)                    (0.85)         (0.75)     (0.80)
       λM                                                                                          1.13          0.46           0.52       0.22
       (t)                                                                                        (2.86)        (1.05)         (0.78)     (0.38)
       R2                    0.01          0.17          0.01            0.17         0.17         0.17          0.17           0.21       0.15
       Time dummies           No           Yes            No             Yes          Yes          Yes           Yes            Yes        Yes
       Commodity dummies      No            No           Yes             Yes          Yes          Yes           Yes            Yes        Yes

                                           Panel B: Spreading returns (RfTut,i,t+1
                                                                          1
                                                                                   − RfTut,i,t+1
                                                                                        2
                                                                                                 )

       λBM                   1.86          1.63          1.66            1.38                                    2.03           1.23        2.24
       (t)                  (6.53)        (5.72)        (5.71)          (4.73)                                  (7.02)        (3.03)      (5.73)
       λB                                                                             0.49                        0.98          0.55       1.41
       (t)                                                                           (0.57)                     (1.13)        (0.39)      (1.27)
       λM                                                                                          -0.14         -0.30         -0.18       -0.39
       (t)                                                                                        (-1.46)       (-2.88)       (-1.15)     (-2.93)
       R2                    0.01          0.02          0.01            0.02         0.02          0.02          0.03          0.02        0.03
       Time dummies           No           Yes            No             Yes          Yes           Yes           Yes           Yes         Yes
       Commodity dummies      No            No           Yes             Yes          Yes           Yes           Yes           Yes         Yes

                                         Panel C: Decomposing basis-momentum predictability

                           RfTut,i,t+1
                              1
                                          RfTut,i,t+1
                                             1
                                                      − RfTut,i,t+1
                                                           2
                                                                                    RfTut,i,t+1
                                                                                       1
                                                                                                  RfTut,i,t+1
                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                              − RfTut,i,t+1
                                                                                                                   2




       λM                     8.23          1.60                        λCurv         4.99         1.17
       (t)                  (6.64)        (5.94)                                     (6.34)       (5.53)
       λTM2                  -7.83         -1.93                        λ∆Slope       9.39         0.60
       (t)                  (-5.84)       (-6.83)                                    (4.01)       (0.88)
       R2                     0.17          0.03                                      0.17         0.03
       Time dummies           Yes           Yes                          65           Yes          Yes
       Commodity dummies      Yes           Yes                                       Yes          Yes
       Time dummies           Yes           Yes                                       Yes          Yes
       Commodity dummies      Yes           Yes                                       Yes          Yes
     Table A.5: Time-series predictability
     This table presents results from two tests that analyze whether lagged basis-momentum predicts nearby (left
     block of results) and spreading (right block of results) returns in the time-series of an individual commodity. In
     Panel A, we first present for each of 21 commodities (full names are matched to the mnemonics in Table A.1
     of the paper) average nearby and spreading returns conditioning on the sign of lagged basis-momentum, and we
     test the difference (µdif f = µ(Rf ut,i,t+1 |BMi,t > 0) − µ(Rf ut,i,t+1 |BMi,t ≤ 0)). Next, we present the coefficient
     (δBM ), t-statistic, and R2 from a time-series regression of returns on lagged basis-momentum. Panel B counts the
     the number of commodities (out of 21) for which the difference and the coefficient, respectively, are positive or
     negative. As a benchmark, we also present the counts when using as signal Xi,t either basis (Bi,t ) or momentum
     (Mi,t ). We test significance at the 10%-level using White heteroskedasticity-robust standard errors. Throughout,
     we use all the returns available for a particular commodity, which means the total sample period differs across
     commodities. There is one observation less for the case of basis in Panel B, because gold is always in contango.

                                                                        Panel A: Futures returns versus lagged signals

66                                                             1                                                                              1             2
                                            Nearby returns (RfTut,i,t+1 )                                               Spreading returns (RfTut,i,t+1 − RfTut,i,t+1 )
        Mnemonic µ(Rt+1 |BMi,t > 0) µ(Rt+1 |BMi,t ≤ 0) µdif f         (t)    δBM      (t)    R2 *100 µ(Rt+1 |BMi,t > 0) µ(Rt+1 |BMi,t ≤ 0) µdif f       (t)       δBM    (t)   R2 *100

        CL                 24.20                2.89        21.30    (1.75) 0.99 (1.25)        0.10           2.02                -2.13          4.15 (2.53) 0.28 (2.45)         1.47
        HU/RB              12.24               25.13        -12.89   (-0.96) -0.05 (-0.06)    -0.30          0.40                  3.78          -3.38 (-1.40) -0.08 (-0.46)    -0.21
        HO                 15.33                4.75         10.58   (1.02) 0.36 (0.35)       -0.20           2.85                -0.35          3.20 (1.86) 0.12 (0.84)        -0.07
        KC                 33.07               -7.39        40.46    (3.05) 1.21 (1.56)        0.62           5.63                -0.34          5.97 (1.86) -0.01 (-0.03)      -0.21
        RR                -18.69               -4.58        -14.11   (-0.91) 1.17 (1.42)       0.66          -2.51                -3.94           1.43 (0.36) 0.39 (1.19)        1.88
        JO                  9.78                0.70          9.08   (0.94) 0.67 (0.78)       -0.06           0.79                -0.17          0.96 (0.62) -0.04 (-0.22)      -0.16
        CC                 13.43               -0.53        13.96    (1.40) 1.79 (2.00)        1.41           1.91                -0.54          2.45 (1.53) 0.13 (0.84)         0.28
        BO                 14.22                2.59        11.63    (1.31) 1.77 (2.17)        1.91           1.79                -0.24          2.02 (1.75) 0.24 (1.78)         2.69
        SM                 17.87                2.87         15.00   (1.89) 1.65 (3.00)       3.17           0.84                 -1.42           2.26 (1.51) 0.12 (0.95)        0.40
        S-                 11.93                3.09          8.84   (1.20) 0.82 (1.46)        0.49          -2.00                -0.87          -1.14 (-0.62) -0.16 (-0.91)     0.43
        C-                  8.25               -6.07         14.32   (2.08) 1.26 (1.36)       0.36           0.21                 -2.04           2.25 (1.51) 0.17 (1.00)        0.13
        O-                  8.89               -7.91        16.80    (2.12) 0.93 (1.94)        0.75           1.22                -1.29          2.52 (1.28) 0.36 (2.93)         2.31
        W-                 14.76               -7.58        22.34    (2.90) 1.83 (2.79)        2.11           1.99                -3.08          5.07 (3.46) 0.43 (3.82)         3.97
        CT                 14.49               -2.67        17.16    (2.18) 1.65 (3.17)        2.02          -1.32                -1.66           0.33 (0.16) 0.14 (1.08)        0.12
        GC                 -0.89                5.75         -6.64   (-1.05) -0.44 (-0.04)    -0.22           0.17                -0.10           0.28 (1.80) 0.10 (0.28)       -0.07
        SI                 10.76                0.75         10.01   (1.10) 5.21 (0.53)       0.24           -0.03                -0.35           0.32 (1.39) 0.31 (1.66)        2.04
        HG                 26.96                2.32         24.64   (3.12) 1.37 (1.39)       0.75           2.50                 -0.06           2.56 (1.86) 0.10 (0.62)        0.07
        LB                 12.98              -12.96         25.94   (3.04) 1.31 (3.67)       2.58           3.50                 -5.63           9.13 (3.23) 0.60 (6.05)        5.76
        FC                  3.03                3.98         -0.95   (-0.20) 0.92 (1.60)       0.32          -0.02                -2.05           2.03 (2.13) 0.53 (4.84)        4.02
        LC                  8.86               -0.29          9.15   (1.92) 0.80 (2.19)       1.17           3.50                 -3.64           7.13 (4.53) 0.47 (4.01)       3.83
        LH                 16.29               -4.87         21.16   (2.82) 1.09 (4.03)       2.10           1.02                 -6.62           7.64 (3.25) 0.55 (6.05)       5.46
Table A.5 continued
             Panel B: Counts for basis-momentum, basis, and momentum

                                          (T )
                                          1
                      Nearby returns (Rf ut,i,t+1 )   Spreading returns (RfTut,i,t+1
                                                                            1
                                                                                     − RfTut,i,t+1
                                                                                          2
                                                                                                   )
Signal Xi,t =         BMi,t Bi,t       Mi,t           BMi,t Bi,t                 Mi,t

                Average returns when lagged signal Xi,t > 0 versus Xi,t ≤ 0

# µdif f,X > 0         17       5         20           19       8                   6
# tµdif f,X > 1.65     11       1         9            11       2                   1
# µdif f,X ≤ 0          4      15         1             2      12                  15
# tµdif f,X ≤ −1.65     0       4         0             0       5                   3

                 Coefficient δX in regression of returns on lagged signal Xi,t

# δX > 0               19       6         16           17       9                  5
# tδX > 1.65            9       1         5             9       2                  2
# δX ≤ 0                2      15         5             4      12                  16
# tδX ≤ −1.65           0       7         0             0       1                  4




                                                 67
Table A.6: Basis-momentum across the futures curve
This table is similar to table 4 of the paper, but uses the larger set of 32 commodities. The
table presents unconditional performance measures from sorting commodities on alternative
measures of basis-momentum. We consider the performance of High4-minus-Low4 portfolios
in second- and third-nearby futures returns (RfTut,s2
                                                       and RfTut,s
                                                               3
                                                                   ) as well as spreading returns
between the second- and third-nearby and the third- and fourth-nearby contracts (RfTut,s    2
                                                                                               −
  T3          T3        T4
Rf ut,s and Rf ut,s − Rf ut,s ). In the first block of results, commodities are sorted on our
usual measure of basis-momentum, BMt . The next two blocks of results sort commodities
on basis-momentum measured using farther-from-expiring contracts, denoted BMt2,3 and
BMt3,4 , respectively. For these sorts, we also present performance statistics using only those
months where less than or equal to three (out of eight) commodities in the High4 and Low4
portfolios overlap between BMt and one of the two alternative measures (denoted, e.g.,
BMt2,3 |BMt ). The sample period is from August 1960 to February 2014.

                                  Average returns for High4-Low4 portfolio
                                     RfTut,s
                                        2
                                             RfTut,s
                                                2
                                                     − RfTut,s
                                                          3
                                                               RfTut,s
                                                                  3
                                                                       RfTut,s
                                                                          3
                                                                               − RfTut,s
                                                                                    4




        BMt              Avg. Ret.    17.92          3.21       16.21         2.28
                         (t)          (6.55)        (5.39)      (6.19)       (3.27)
                         Sharpe        0.89          0.76        0.87         0.56

        BMt2,3           Avg. Ret.    16.79          2.47
                         (t)          (6.39)        (4.07)
                         Sharpe        0.87          0.56
        BMt2,3 |BMt      Avg. Ret.    12.17          2.79
        (329 Months)     (t)          (3.35)        (3.16)
                         Sharpe        0.64          0.60

        BMt3,4           Avg. Ret.                              10.32         0.87
                         (t)                                    (4.07)       (1.67)
                         Sharpe                                  0.56         0.23
        BMt3,4 |BMt      Avg. Ret.                              12.66         0.92
        (436 Months)     (t)                                    (3.95)       (1.38)
                         Sharpe                                  0.66         0.23




                                               68
Table A.7: Time-series predictability of spot and roll returns
This table presents for the sample of 21 commodities (full names are matched to the mnemon-
                                                      spot        roll
ics in Table A.1) the predictive coefficients (ηBM , ηBM   , and ηBM   ) from a regression of nearby,
spot, and roll returns on basis-momentum (see Equations (19), (20), (21)). Following the
approach of Fama and French (1987), the left hand side first-nearby returns are log hold-
ing period returns, which equal the sum of the first-nearby roll return at the beginning of
the holding period and the spot return of the first-nearby contract over the holding pe-
riod, i.e., in between two roll dates. We test significance at the 10%-level using White
heteroskedasticity-robust standard errors. Throughout we use all the returns available for
a particular commodity, which means the total sample period differs across commodities.
Note, given that we measure the basis using the price difference of two futures contract it is
exactly equal to the negative of the roll return of the first-nearby strategy. For this reason,
we omit the test of significance here.


                 Nearby (rfTut,i,t+1:t+T
                            1
                                        1
                                          )    Spot (rfspot
                                                        ut,i,t+1:t+T1 )    Roll (rfroll
                                                                                    ut,i,t+1:t+T1 )
                                     2        spot
                ηBM      (t)       R *100 ηBM         (t)          2
                                                                R *100 ηBMroll
                                                                                  (t)        R2 *100
          CL     1.03 (1.37)         0.13   -0.76 (-0.96)         -0.05  1.79 (9.51)          30.78
          HU/RB -0.02 (-0.02)       -0.30   -1.71 (-1.99)          0.81  1.69 (6.92)          12.11
          HO     0.23 (0.24)        -0.23   -1.49 (-1.39)          0.49  1.72 (5.46)          13.54
          KC     1.85 (0.87)         0.51   -2.00 (-1.09)          0.71  3.85 (8.53)          58.58
          RR     3.06 (1.89)         1.98    3.43 (1.62)           2.05 -0.37 (-0.46)         -0.30
          JO     0.93 (0.59)        -0.23   -2.88 (-1.88)          0.90  3.81 (3.12)          26.80
          CC     3.08 (1.59)         1.71   -0.59 (-0.31)         -0.30  3.66 (10.29) 49.12
          BO     2.29 (1.92)         2.14    0.50 (0.41)          -0.12  1.79 (7.17)          31.98
          SM     2.39 (2.82)         4.64    2.14 (2.25)           3.49  0.25 (0.82)           0.79
          S-     1.55 (1.86)         1.21    1.61 (1.45)           1.19 -0.05 (-0.12)         -0.24
          C-     3.01 (1.26)         0.92    0.18 (0.07)          -0.37  2.83 (3.62)          10.37
          O-     2.11 (2.77)         1.97   -0.84 (-1.21)         -0.02  2.95 (7.36)          34.92
          W-     4.12 (2.93)         4.69    1.56 (1.00)           0.28  2.57 (4.99)          14.69
          CT     4.18 (3.40)         4.46    1.16 (0.60)          -0.08  3.01 (2.42)           9.77
          GC    -3.07 (-0.13)       -0.40   -7.03 (-0.31)         -0.22  3.96 (3.55)           8.40
          SI    19.38 (1.16)         1.89   17.27 (1.01)           1.44  2.11 (3.74)           7.64
          HG     2.80 (1.68)         1.39   -0.61 (-0.34)         -0.23  3.40 (9.86)          47.26
          LB     2.74 (3.94)         5.03   -0.78 (-1.02)          0.02  3.53 (14.56) 53.11
          FC     1.63 (2.08)         0.97    0.30 (0.34)          -0.30  1.33 (4.88)           6.28
          LC     1.82 (3.13)         3.69   -0.09 (-0.12)         -0.34  1.90 (6.64)          13.99
          LH     1.81 (4.09)         3.54    0.47 (0.85)          -0.15  1.34 (3.26)           3.51




                                                     69
Table A.8: Volatility and basis and momentum portfolios
This table is similar to table 8 of the paper and presents results from two tests that link the
basis- and momentum-sorted portfolios to volatility. Aggregate commodity market variance,
vartmkt , is calculated as the sum of squared daily returns on an equal-weighted commodity
index, and average commodity market variance, vartavg , is calculated as the equal weighted
average of the sum of squared daily returns of individual commodities. Both variance series
are winsorized at the 1%-level and standardized to accommodate interpretation. Panel A
presents coefficient estimates, vvar , from time series regressions of basis-momentum (nearby
and spreading) High4-minus-Low4 portfolio returns (compounded over horizons of k = 1, 12
months) on lagged variance. Panel B presents coefficient estimates, nuvar , from time series
regressions of nearby and spreading returns on contemporaneous monthly innovations in the
variance series. To conserve space, we present only the estimated coefficient, v1 , with its
t-statistic computed using Newey-West standard errors with k lags. The sample period is
August 1960 to February 2014.
                    Panel A: Does volatility predict High4-Low4 basis and momentum returns?

                   Nearby returns (RfTut,p,t+1:t+k
                                      1
                                                   )      Spreading returns (RfTut,p,t+1:t+k
                                                                                1
                                                                                             − RfTut,p,t+1:t+k
                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                               )
                   Basis            Momentum              Basis            Momentum
          k          1       12         1          12       1       12        1                 12

           mkt
          vvar      -7.51     -3.84   -2.22      -4.11     0.27      -0.81   -1.42               -0.08
          (t)      (-1.98)   (-0.95) (-0.49)    (-2.47)   (0.30)    (-1.59) (-1.27)             (-0.29)
          R2         0.01      0.02    0.00       0.03     0.00      0.02    0.01                0.00

           avg
          vvar      -4.47   -2.12      -3.84     -3.24     0.84      -0.23     -1.94             -0.07
          (t)      (-1.33) (-0.55)    (-0.87)   (-1.63)   (0.91)    (-0.34)   (-1.88)           (-0.19)
          R2         0.00    0.00       0.00      0.02     0.00      0.00      0.01              0.00

                 Panel B: Are High4-Low4 basis and momentum returns exposed to volatility risk?

                   Nearby returns (RfTut,p,t+1:t+k
                                      1
                                                   )      Spreading returns (RfTut,p,t+1
                                                                                1
                                                                                         − RfTut,p,t+1
                                                                                              2
                                                                                                       )
                   Basis            Momentum              Basis            Momentum

           mkt
          νvar       5.78              -5.95               -0.20               -0.22
          (t)       (2.41)            (-2.02)             (-0.27)             (-0.34)

           avg
          νvar       2.60              -1.44               0.00                0.05
          (t)       (2.02)            (-0.99)             (0.00)              (0.19)




                                                          70
Table A.9: Basis-momentum factors versus benchmark commodity factors (32
commodities)
This table is similar to table 9 of the paper, but uses the larger set of 32 commodities
to construct the commodity factors. Panel A of this table presents summary statistics for
the basis-momentum nearby and spreading factors, which are constructed as the nearby
   nearby                         spread
(RBM,t+1   ) and spreading (RBM,t+1       ) return of the High4-minus-Low4 portfolio from univari-
ate sorts of 32 commodities. To benchmark these new factors, we also present summary
statistics for the factors in two recently developed commodity pricing models. The first
model (1) of Szymanowska et al. (2014) contains three factors, which are all constructed
from a sort on the basis: (i) the nearby return for the High4-minus-Low4 basis portfolio
   nearby                                                                  spread
(RB,t+1   ), (ii) the spreading return of the High4 basis portfolio (RB,High4,t+1    ), and (iii) the
                                                        spread
spreading return of the Low4 basis portfolio (RB,Low4,t+1 ). The second model (2) of Bakshi
et al. (2015) contains three nearby return factors: (i) a market index (“the average fac-
         nearby
tor”, RAV    G,t+1 ), (ii) the nearby return for the High4-minus-Low4 basis portfolio (as in the
model of de Szymanowska et al. (2014)), and (iii) the nearby return for the High4-minus-
                                     nearby
Low4 momentum portfolio (RM,t+1             ). Panel B presents spanning tests that ask whether the
basis-momentum factors provide an abnormal return over these two benchmark models. We
present results for the full sample period from August 1960 to February 2014. The last two
columns of Panel B summarize the spanning regressions for two subsamples, split around
January 1986. t-statistics are presented underneath each estimate and are calculated using
Newey-West standard errors with lag length one.

                                                             Panel A: Summary statistics
                                                                                                           Correlations
                                                                              nearby      nearby    nearby        nearby    spread      spread
                        Avg. ret.   St.Dev.     Skew.     Kurt.    AR(1)     RBM,t+1     RB,t+1  , RAV G,t+1    RM,t+1     RBM,t+1     RB,High4,t+1

     nearby
    RBM,t+1              22.09       23.17      0.58       6.86      0.08
     nearby
    RB,t+1  (1),(2)      -7.68       22.36      0.07       6.35      0.10        -0.41
     nearby
    RAV G,t+1 (2)         5.61       13.27      0.13       7.03      0.06         0.00    -0.01
     nearby
    RM,t+1  (2)          18.65       27.24      0.33       5.02      0.03         0.34    -0.35      0.15
     spread
    RBM,t+1               5.04        5.76      1.00       8.89     -0.01         0.52    -0.26      -0.01       0.17
     spread
    RB,High4,t+1  (1)    -1.32        3.24      0.20       5.02      0.08        -0.18     0.36       0.15       -0.14       -0.29
     spread
    RB,Low4,t+1  (1)     -0.77       5.15       0.80      14.14     -0.03         0.15    -0.42      0.07        0.11         0.28        -0.01

                                           Panel B: Basis-momentum factors on benchmark factor models

                                                       Full sample                                             Pre-1986    Post-1986
                          αBM       βBnearby    spread
                                               βB,High4     spread
                                                          βB,Low4   nearby
                                                                   βAV G
                                                                              nearby
                                                                             βM            R2                    αBM         αBM

                                                    Basis-momentum nearby factor
     nearby
    RBM,t+1              18.44       -0.42      -0.23     -0.11                           0.17                   17.61      18.69
                         (6.15)     (-7.37)    (-0.90) (-0.40)                                                   (4.50)     (3.83)
     nearby
    RBM,t+1              16.11       -0.34                       -0.06    0.20            0.21                   16.64      15.43
                         (5.65)     (-5.08)                     (-0.78) (3.62)                                   (4.13)     (3.78)
                                                   Basis-momentum spreading factor
     spread
    RBM,t+1               4.53       -0.01      -0.48      0.30                           0.16                    2.01       6.58
                         (6.11)     (-1.01)    (-6.02)   (3.58)                                                  (2.40)     (5.33)
     spread
    RBM,t+1               4.27       -0.06                       -0.01    0.02            0.07                    2.15       6.20
                         (5.70)     (-3.19)                     (-0.83) (2.10)                                   (2.14)     (5.66)


                                                                            71
     Table A.10: Cross-sectional asset pricing tests for commodity factor models (32 commodities)
     This table is similar to Table 10 in the paper, but uses the larger set of 32 commodities to construct both the
     factors and portfolios for the asset pricing test. The table presents cross-sectional asset pricing tests for six
     candidate commodity factor models. The first model of Szymanowska et al. (2014) contains the basis nearby
                nearby                                                                                         spread
     factor (RB,t+1    ) as well as the spreading return of both the High4 and Low4 basis portfolio (RB,High4,t+1         and
       spread
     RB,Low4,t+1 ). The second model of Bakshi et al. (2015) contains three nearby factors: a market index (“the
                           nearby                       nearby                                nearby
     average factor”, RAV     G,t+1 ), a basis factor (RB,t+1 ), and a momentum factor (RM,t+1 ). The third and fourth
                                                             nearby
     model add the basis-momentum nearby factor (RBM,t+1            ) to these two models. The fifth model is a two-factor
     model including the average commodity market index and the basis-momentum nearby factor. The sixth model
                                                                                spread
     adds the basis-momentum spreading factor to this specification (RBM,t+1           ). The portfolio-level test in Panel A
     regresses the average returns of 32 commodity-sorted portfolios (that is, the nearby and spreading return of 9
     portfolios sorted on basis-momentum, basis, and momentum (the High4, Mid, and Low4 portfolio from each of
72   these sorts) and 7 sector portfolios (Energy, Grains, Industrial Materials, Meats, Metals, Oilseeds, and Softs)) on
     their full sample exposures. The commodity-level test in Panel B conducts monthly Fama and MacBeth (1973)
     cross-sectional regressions of the nearby and spreading returns of 32 commodities on their historical exposure,
     estimated over a one year rolling window of daily returns. Due to the staggered introduction of commodities in
     the sample, the size of the cross-section is also time-varying. We present the estimated prices of risk (γ) with
     corresponding t-statistics in parentheses underneath each estimate (the standard errors are calculated following
     Shanken (1992) in Panel A and Fama and MacBeth (1973) in Panel B). Also, we present the cross-sectional R2
     and the mean absolute pricing error (M AP E, in brackets), which is further decomposed in the M AP E among
     nearby returns and spreading returns. These measures follow from a regression of average returns on full sample
     betas in Panel A and average returns on average betas in Panel B. We present results for the full sample period
     from August 1960 to February 2014, but also summarize the evidence for two subsamples, split around January
     1986, focusing on the price of risk for the nearby basis-momentum factor and cross-sectional fit.
     Table A.10 continued

                                                         Full sample                                                               Pre- versus post-1986

                          nearby               nearby    nearby    spread    spread     spread                            nearby               nearby
                 γ0      γBM       γBnearby   γAV G     γM        γBM       γB,High4   γB,Low4     R2     M AP Enearby   γBM          R2      γBM         R2
                                                                                                 M AP E   M AP Espread              M AP E              M AP E

                                                          Panel A: Portfolio-level test with full sample betas

     Model 1    1.42               -20.25                                    2.79       -3.58     0.46       [3.92]                   0.56                  0.31
               (1.93)              (-5.54)                                  (1.73)     (-2.25)   [3.09]      [2.25]                  [3.18]                [3.27]
     Model 2    -0.73              -13.18      5.91     21.22                                     0.78       [2.41]                   0.77                  0.76
               (-2.78)             (-4.13)    (3.16)    (5.57)                                   [1.62]      [0.83]                  [1.89]                [1.87]
     Model 3    1.33     23.02     -13.37                                    2.60       -3.30     0.64       [3.40]      20.79        0.70    25.64         0.58
               (1.84)    (6.70)    (-3.92)                                  (1.65)     (-2.11)   [2.71]      [2.03]      (3.99)      [2.78]   (4.93)       [2.72]
     Model 4    -0.84    21.50      -9.03      5.94     19.11                                     0.92       [1.58]      23.49        0.93    20.10         0.86
               (-3.20)   (6.37)    (-2.90)    (3.18)    (5.02)                                   [1.14]      [0.70]      (4.84)      [1.09]   (4.05)       [1.68]
     Model 5    -0.99    24.05                 6.30                                               0.88       [2.03]      25.95        0.90    22.06         0.81
73             (-3.64)   (6.73)               (3.36)                                             [1.35]      [0.66]      (5.44)      [1.13]   (3.98)       [1.78]
     Model 6    -1.05    23.63                 6.32                5.71                           0.89       [1.88]      25.40        0.91    21.64         0.82
               (-3.72)   (6.61)               (3.37)              (3.53)                         [1.31]      [0.74]      (5.34)      [1.25]   (3.90)       [1.73]

                                                         Panel B: Commodity-level test with historical betas

     Model 1    1.72               -11.89                                    1.39       1.94      0.49       [3.69]                   0.14                  0.64
               (2.19)              (-2.68)                                  (1.05)     (1.08)    [2.86]      [2.03]                  [3.42]                [2.52]
     Model 2    -0.03              -17.13      4.87      -4.41                                    0.77       [2.78]                   0.46                  0.80
               (-0.08)             (-3.64)    (2.60)    (-0.85)                                  [1.98]      [1.18]                  [2.54]                [1.98]
     Model 3    1.34     13.79     -12.47                                    1.42       2.06      0.53       [3.54]      15.41        0.12     11.63        0.67
               (1.86)    (3.13)    (-2.70)                                  (1.12)     (1.21)    [2.73]      [1.93]      [2.37]      [3.55]    [1.93]      [2.33]
     Model 4    -0.07    14.75     -13.36      4.92      -2.46                                    0.77       [2.71]      13.08        0.48     14.23        0.81
               (-0.18)   (3.33)    (-2.73)    (2.64)    (-0.45)                                  [1.96]      [1.21]      [2.12]      [2.53]    [2.26]      [1.91]
     Model 5    0.18     12.44                 4.47                                               0.63       [3.68]      11.42        0.32     12.69        0.63
               (0.41)    (2.91)               (2.36)                                             [2.42]      [1.17]      [1.87]      [2.97]    [2.10]      [2.55]
     Model 6    0.24     12.59                 4.41                -0.09                          0.67       [3.42]      11.51        0.35     12.29        0.68
               (0.56)    (2.94)               (2.34)              (-0.06)                        [2.15]      [0.88]      [1.85]      [2.73]    [2.07]      [2.28]
Table A.11: Cross-sectional asset pricing tests: Basis-momentum versus volatil-
ity risk
This table is similar to Table 11 of the paper, but uses the larger sample of 32 commodi-
ties to construct the portfolios that are used as test assets in the cross-sectional regressions
that test the relation between the pricing of basis-momentum and volatility risk. We con-
                                                                                nearby
sider five models. The first model contains the average nearby factor (RAV         G,t+1 ) as well
                                            nearby
as the basis-momentum nearby factor (RBM,t+1 ). The second and third model replace the
basis-momentum factor with non-traded innovations in commodity and stock market vari-
                 com            eq
ance, i.e., ∆vart+1  and ∆vart+1   , respectively. In models four and five, we include both
basis-momentum and the innovations. We regress the average returns of 32 commodity-
sorted portfolios (that is, the nearby and spreading return of 9 portfolios sorted on basis-
momentum, basis, and momentum (the High4, Mid, and Low4 portfolio from these sorts)
and 7 sector portfolios (Energy, Grains, Industrial Materials, Meats, Metals, Oilseeds, and
Softs)) on their full sample exposures. We present the estimated prices of risk (γ) with
corresponding Shanken (1992) t-statistics in parentheses underneath each estimate. Also,
we present the cross-sectional R2 and the mean absolute pricing error (M AP E, in brackets),
which is further decomposed in the M AP E among nearby returns and spreading returns.
We present results for the full sample period from August 1960 to February 2014.

                             nearby    nearby
                    γ0      γAV G     γBM         mkt
                                                 γvar       avg
                                                           γvar       R2     M AP Enearby
                                                                    M AP E   M AP Espread

       Model 1     -0.99     6.30     24.05                          0.88       [2.03]
                  (-3.64)   (3.36)    (6.73)                        [1.35]      [0.66]
       Model 2     -1.48     7.36                -0.09               0.66       [3.06]
                  (-3.93)   (3.82)              (-3.56)             [2.02]      [0.97]
       Model 3     -1.08     7.32                          -0.33     0.56       [3.75]
                  (-2.50)   (3.71)                        (-2.50)   [2.32]      [0.89]
       Model 4     -1.14     6.59     22.67      -0.03               0.89       [1.84]
                  (-3.93)   (3.51)    (6.53)    (-1.34)             [1.28]      [0.72]
       Model 5     -1.02     6.56     23.34                -0.09     0.89       [1.89]
                  (-3.56)   (3.48)    (6.56)              (-1.03)   [1.28]      [0.66]




                                                74
