                            Convenience Yield Risk

  Marcel Prokopczuk*, ¶            Lazaros Symeonidis              Chardin Wese Simen

                                    Robert Wichmann §

                                      January 29, 2023


                            Energy Economics, forthcoming

                                            Abstract
We develop a framework to quantify the convenience yield risk (CYR) inherent to each
commodity futures market. Implementing our approach, we document that our novel CYR
measure is informative about future commodity returns. In panel regressions, the CYR pre-
dicts future returns with a positive sign. Economically, a strategy that opens long positions
in commodity markets with a higher than median CYR signal and sells the remaining com-
modities yields an average return of 6.93% per year. The performance of the CYR strategy
cannot be explained by exposure to existing commodity strategies or other variables that
capture changes in the investment opportunity set.



JEL Classification: G12, Q02
Keywords: Commodity Risk Factors, Convenience Yield, Futures Curve, Return Predictabil-
ity
  * School of Economics and Management, Leibniz University Hannover, Königsworther Platz 1, 30167
Hannover, Germany.
   Essex Business School, University of Essex, Wivenhoe Park, Colchester, CO4 3SQ, United Kingdom.
    Management School, University of Liverpool, L69 7ZH, United Kingdom.
  § ICMA Centre, Henley Business School, University of Reading, Reading, RG6 6BA, United Kingdom.
1     Introduction

The convenience yield, defined as the benefit that accrues to the holder of the physical
commodity, plays a very central role in commodity markets (Kaldor, 1939; Working, 1949;
Brennan, 1958; Telser, 1958). Given its prominence, it is therefore not surprising that several
studies analyze its information content. Gorton et al. (2013) document a significant cross-
sectional relationship between the convenience yield and future commodity returns. Koijen
et al. (2018) show that the “carry”, which is related to the convenience yield, predicts
commodity returns in the time series and cross-section. A common theme across these
papers is that they focus on the level of the convenience yield. Naturally, one may wonder:
what is the information content of the other moments of the convenience yield?
    In this paper, we focus on the second moment of the convenience yield and explore its
information content. To achieve this goal, we propose a measure of convenience yield risk
(CYR). The computation of our novel measure is simple. For each commodity market, we
compute the convenience yield implied by (i) the first and second nearby futures contracts as
well as (ii) the second and third nearby futures contracts. For ease of exposition, we denote
these quantities the first and second convenience yield estimates, respectively. At the end of
each month, we use all daily data pertaining to the month to compute the monthly volatility
of each of the two convenience yield series. Finally, we obtain the CYR signal as the trailing
12-month average of the difference between the volatility of the first and second convenience
yield series.1 We use a cross-section of 27 commodities spanning the period from July 1959
to December 2018 to operationalize our new measure. We estimate a panel regression of
commodity returns on the lagged CYR signal. We find that the CYR signal positively
predicts commodity returns as evidenced by the significant t-statistic of 2.26. This finding
mirrors that of Li and Yang (2013) who document that the volatility of the dividend growth
    1
      Intuitively, we take the difference between the two volatility estimates in order to remove any asset
specific effect. This is akin to the approach used in Gu et al. (2019). Furthermore, we average the difference
in the volatility estimates over a 12-month trailing window in order to alleviate concerns about measurement
errors.



                                                      1
rate positively forecasts stock market returns. We augment our baseline panel regression
with time- and commodity-fixed effects and reach similar conclusions. We also control for
the impact of other prominent commodity signals documented in the literature and reach
the same conclusion: the CYR is a significant predictor of commodity futures returns.
   We examine the economic value of the predictive power of CYR. To this end, we develop
and implement a simple trading strategy. At the end of each month, we sort all commodities
by their CYR signal. We then open long and short positions in the commodities with CYR
signal higher and lower than the median CYR signal, respectively. The strategy generates a
positive and significant annualized average return of 6.93% (t-stat.=3.24) and an annualized
Sharpe ratio (SR) of 0.46. We estimate spanning regressions of the CYR strategy returns
on a set of commodity risk factors recently proposed in the literature. We find that the
average risk-adjusted return of the CYR strategy (Average=4.6%, t-stat=2.09) is positive,
highly significant, and comparable to the unadjusted average return (Average=6.93% and
t-stat=3.24). Collectively, the empirical evidence suggests that the returns of the CYR
strategy are unspanned by the existing commodity market strategies. We also analyze the
extent to which the CYR returns may be explained by exposure to macroeconomic risk and
equity risk factors. We find limited evidence to support this conjecture.
   We perform several checks to assess the robustness of our findings. We show that our
results are robust to the addition of more nearby futures contracts when computing the
CYR signal. Furthermore, we show that the CYR strategy remains profitable when the
assets are rank-, rather than equal-, weighted in the portfolios. We also repeat our analysis
focusing on the top and bottom tertile portfolios and obtain similar results. We analyze
the impact of a decision delay of 1-month between the computation of the signal and the
implementation of the trading strategy. Overall, we find that the decision delay does not
materially affect our results. Furthermore, we show that the CYR strategy is profitable across
various periods, including the high and low volatility regimes. Additionally, we consider
alternative formation periods for the computation of the CYR signal and obtain qualitatively


                                              2
similar results. Moreover, we document that the CYR is also informative about the cross-
section of spreading returns. However, the CYR spreading returns are spanned by those of
the existing commodity factors. Finally, we establish that the CYR strategy returns remain
profitable after accounting for transaction costs.
   Our research contributes to the broader literature on commodity risk premia. Szy-
manowska et al. (2014) analyze a broad range of commodity trading strategies, including the
momentum strategy (Miffre and Rallis, 2007), the carry strategy (Gorton et al., 2013), and
the hedging pressure strategy (Basu and Miffre, 2013). Fernandez-Perez et al. (2016) and
Fernandez-Perez et al. (2018) analyze trading strategies based on the idiosyncratic volatility
and skewness signals, respectively. Fan et al. (2020) focus on trading strategies based on the
speculative pressure. We add to this literature by proposing a novel predictor of commodity
futures returns based on the convenience yield risk. We show that this new predictor is
weakly correlated with predictors already identified in the literature. Furthermore, the CYR
strategy returns are not spanned by existing commodity strategies.
   Our work also contributes to the strand of literature that employs information from
the term structure of commodity futures to build profitable trading strategies. de Groot
et al. (2014) show that momentum strategies that involve use contracts with the highest
expected roll yield earn significantly higher risk-adjusted returns compared to the traditional
momentum strategy. Boons and Prado (2019) introduce the basis-momentum, which is
defined as the difference in the momentum of the two nearest futures contracts and document
substantial profits from its implementation. Gu et al. (2019) propose the relative basis
which relies on the spread between the two nearest bases. They find the relative basis signal
to be more strongly related to the inventory scarcity than the traditional basis. Paschke
et al. (2020) implement the curve momentum strategy that works within the futures curve
by trading the nearest two futures contracts. We add to this stream of the literature by
proposing and analyzing a novel trading strategy based on the CYR signal.
   The remainder of the paper is structured as follows. Section 2 describes the data. Sec-


                                              3
tion 3 introduces our measure of convenience yield risk, and presents the results. Section 4
discusses the results from various robustness checks. Finally, Section 5 concludes.



2         Data

We obtain daily futures price and trading volume data for 27 commodities. The dataset
comes from Bloomberg and covers the period from July 7, 1959 to December 31, 2018. This
dataset includes a broad range of liquid commodity futures markets which can be grouped
into 6 sectors: energy, grains, livestock, metals, oilseeds, and softs. Table A.1 of the appendix
contains a detailed description of the dataset. The table shows the commodities included
in our analysis, together with information on the exchange where each commodity futures
trades, its expiry schedule, and contract size.
        Following the standard practice (e.g., Szymanowska et al., 2014; Boons and Prado, 2019),
we construct continuous futures price series by rolling over each contract at the end of the
month preceding the month prior to the delivery month. By taking this step, we aim to
alleviate concerns about stale prices occurring in the final month before the end of trading
of the futures contracts.2 This means that on the day prior to a rollover, we have to account
for the fact that the (n + 1)th nearby futures contract will become the nth nearby futures
contract on the following day. Using this approach, we ensure that the computed excess
return series is based on the same contract and is realizable (Singleton, 2014). We compute
the return on the nth nearby futures contact on day t as
                                       
                                       ft(n) − ft−1
                                                 (n+1)
                                       
                           (n)
                                                      , if t − 1 is a rollover day
                          rt     :=                                                                       (1)
                                       ft(n) − ft−1
                                                 (n)
                                       
                                                    ,   otherwise

            (n)   (n+1)          (n)
where ft , ft−1 , and ft−1 denote the logarithmic price of the nth , the n + 1th and the nth
    2
    Even though this procedure is standard in the literature (Szymanowska et al., 2014; Paschke et al., 2020),
as a robustness check we roll over the contracts at the end of the month prior to the delivery month. The
results are qualitatively similar.


                                                         4
nearby futures contract at times t, t − 1, and t − 1, respectively. The first case in Equation
(1) corresponds to the situation where a rollover has occurred on the previous day, t − 1.
Then, the excess futures return is computed as the logarithmic difference in the prices of the
nth futures contract on day t and the (n + 1)th contract on day t − 1 (i.e., the rollover day).
The second case in Equation (1) is when there is no rollover on day t − 1 and hence the
excess futures return is computed as the logarithmic difference in the price of the nth nearby
futures contract from day t − 1 to day t. We thus end up with a continuous excess return
series for each commodity and contract maturity. The summary statistics on the returns of
the first nearby futures contract, presented in Table A.2 of the appendix, reveal the typical
cross-sectional variation in the average returns and standard deviations across commodity
markets and sectors (de Groot et al., 2014).3
        We also collect data on the open interest (number of futures contracts outstanding), and
the positions of commercial and non-commercial traders obtained from the Commitment of
Traders (CoT) report of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC). Finally, we
consider data on economic and financial variables. Further details on this data are discussed
in Subsection 3.5.



3         Convenience Yield Risk

We start by computing the daily implied convenience yield using the cost-of-carry relation-
ship. For the ith and j th nearby futures contracts, it holds that:

                                                                  M (j) − M (i)
                                  (j)  (i)          (i,j) (i,j)       t         t
                                 ft = ft +        rft − yt                          ,                (2)
                                                                          365

            (j)        (i)
where ft          and ft     are the logarithmic prices of the j th and ith nearby futures contracts
                                               (i,j)
on day t (with j > i), respectively. rft               is the annualized risk-free rate on day t for the
    3
    When we employ the same sample as de Groot et al. (2014) and Paschke et al. (2020), we find that the
average returns are very similar to those of the authors.



                                                         5
period starting at i and ending at j. The risk-free dataset comes from the term structure of
                                                                                                              (i,j)
interest rates obtained from the Federal Reserve Economic Data (FRED) database.4 yt
is the annualized convenience yield on day t referring to the period between the expiration
                                                       (j)         (i)
dates of the ith and j th futures contracts.5 Mt             and Mt are the days to expiry of the above
                       (j)       (i)
contracts (with Mt           > Mt ).
       We then compute the convenience yield by rearranging Equation (2). Our methodology
is deliberately non-parametric as opposed to approaches which model convenience yield as
a continuous-time stochastic process (Schwartz, 1997; Sørensen, 2002; Prokopczuk and Wu,
2013). Apart from avoiding restrictive assumptions, our approach has the benefit of allowing
us to back out the convenience yield for any pair of contract maturities, which is our main
objective.6
       Descriptive statistics for the nearest convenience yield, y (1,2) , i.e., the one computed from
the first and second nearby futures contracts, are presented in Table 1. The first order
autocorrelation coefficients (AR(1)) indicate that the convenience yield is persistent. These
figures are of similar magnitude to those reported in Gu et al. (2019). Moreover, in line
with the existing literature (Gorton et al., 2013; Prokopczuk and Wu, 2013), we document
substantial variation in the first two moments of the convenience yields across commodities.
   4
     We use the overnight, 1-, 2-, 3-, 6-month as well as 1- and 2-year constant maturity rates.
   5
     Strictly speaking, y (i,j) encodes information about (i) the interest rate expense, (ii) the pure convenience
yield, and (iii) the storage costs (Gu et al., 2019). Stancu et al. (2021) emphasize that the storage costs
include the cost of renting the storage facilities as well as all ancillary expenses such as pumping fees in
the case of oil and spoilage fees for agricultural commodities. If the storage cost estimates are available,
one can easily re-arrange the cost-of-carry formula to retrieve the time-series of the pure convenience yield.
Such time-series would be very useful for our empirical analysis. Unfortunately, the storage cost estimates
are difficult to obtain in practice, as evidenced by the dearth of research on the topic of storage costs. One
notable exception relates to the work of Stancu et al. (2021) who use the LOOP storage futures contract to
analyze the cost of storing the LOOP Gulf Coast Sour crude oil. To the best of our knowledge, there are no
storage futures contracts related to any of the 27 commodity markets that we analyze. Since the storage cost
data are not readily available for the broad cross-section of markets that we analyze, we are not currently
able to pursue this analysis. We leave this avenue for future research.
   6
     Typically, the definition of the convenience yield revolves around the first two nearby contracts, where
the first nearby contract is used as a proxy for the spot price and the second nearby contract is informative
about the futures price. In this paper, we extract the convenience yield implied by any i and j nearby
contracts too (i.e., i > 1). Strictly speaking, it is the forward convenience yield implied by the futures curve
from the maturity of the i nearby contract to that of the j nearby contract. For ease of exposition, in the
paper, we commit a slight abuse of terminology and refer to this quantity as the convenience yield.



                                                        6
For instance, the mean (standard deviation) of the convenience yield of natural gas is equal
to 10.45% (173.35%), while the corresponding figure for gold is 0.53% (1.47%). This cross-
sectional variation in the convenience yield is strongly influenced by seasonal demand and
supply patterns. For example, the seasonal variation in the convenience yield of natural gas
and heating oil is mainly driven by the heating demand during cold months. Similarly, the
seasonality in the convenience yield of agricultural commodities, such as corn or soybeans,
relates to the annual harvest cycle.
       To formally investigate the seasonal behavior of the convenience yield, we estimate re-
gressions of the monthly average convenience yield of each commodity on monthly dummy
variables. Table A.3 of the appendix presents the slope estimates and R2 coefficients of these
regressions. The p-value of the F-test reported in the last column of the table indicates re-
jection of the null hypothesis that the coefficients of the twelve monthly dummy variables
are jointly equal to zero for most markets.7 As one would expect, we obtain the strongest
evidence of seasonality in the convenience yield of commodities in the energy, agricultural
and livestock sectors, and the weakest in metals.
       We next compute the monthly volatility of the convenience yield as follows:

                                       v
                                       u             Nt
                                 (i,j)
                                       u       1 X         (i,j) (i,j)
                             σ (y ) = t
                               t                         (yτ − yt )2 ,                                (3)
                                             Nt − 1 τ =1


where σt (y (i,j) ) denotes the month t volatility of the convenience yield associated with nearby
                                                                                                  (i,j)
contracts i and j, respectively. Nt is the number of daily observations in month t, yτ                    is
                                                                                                     (i,j)
the convenience yield on day τ of month t for the pair of nearby contracts i and j, and yt
is the average of y (i,j) during month t. Table A.4 of the appendix reports that the average
convenience yield volatility exhibits strong cross-sectional variation. In particular, energy,
livestock, and agricultural commodities have higher average convenience yield volatility com-
pared to metals.
   7
    This finding is consistent with the work of Back et al. (2013) who document seasonal variation in the
volatility of agricultural and energy commodities.


                                                   7
       We then define the convenience yield risk (CYR) as follows:

                                          12
                                       1 X
                                             σt−i (y (1,2) ) − σt−i (y (2,3) ) ,
                                                                              
                               CYRt =                                                                             (4)
                                      12 i=1


where CYRt is the convenience yield risk at time t. σt−i (y (1,2) ) and σt−i (y (2,3) ) are the
volatilities of the first and second nearest convenience yields of month t − i.8
       Several factors motivate our computation of the convenience yield risk. First, by com-
puting the monthly volatility of the convenience yield (see Equation (3)), we capture the
monthly time-variation in the convenience yield. Second, we compute the difference between
the monthly volatility of the first two convenience yield series. In so doing, we aim to remove
any market-specific effect. This approach is akin to that of Gu et al. (2019). Third, we use
a 12-month measurement period to (i) address the issue of seasonality in both the level and
volatility of the convenience yield series and (ii) alleviate concerns about measurement errors.
The use of a 12-month trailing window is consistent with the standard formation period used
in benchmark trading strategies (Moskowitz et al., 2012; Boons and Prado, 2019).9 Fourth,
our CYR measure in Equation (4) relies on data pertaining to the first three nearest futures
contracts, which are typically the most liquid ones.10
       Table 2 summarizes the descriptive statistics of the CYR of each commodity market.
We observe substantial variation in the first two moments of the CYR across commodities.
Moreover, the first order autocorrelation coefficient (column AR(1)) shows that the CYR
signal is persistent. This is to be expected as it is based on a 12-month average which may
induce serial dependence in the series.
   8
     In Table A.5 of the appendix, we report the volatility of the first four convenience yields, i.e., σ(y (1,2) ) to
   (4,5)
σ(y     ). The volatility of the nearest convenience yield is generally higher than the volatility of the second
nearest convenience yield.
   9
     We examine the sensitivity of our findings to alternative formation periods in Section 4.
  10
     Gu et al. (2019) show that the open interest of the third nearby contract is around 40% of that of the
second nearby contract, suggesting sufficient liquidity.




                                                          8
3.1       Predicting Commodity Returns

In this section, we explore the predictive ability of the CYR for excess commodity futures
returns. Similar to Boons and Prado (2019), we estimate the following predictive panel
regressions:
                        ri,t+1 = γ0 + γ1 CYRi,t + γ2′ Xi,t + θt+1 + κi + ηi,t+1 ,                      (5)

where ri,t+1 is the excess return on commodity i in month t + 1. γ0 is the intercept. γ1 is the
loading of the convenience yield risk CY Ri,t . γ2 is the vector of loadings on the explanatory
variables Xi,t = (BASi,t , MOMi,t , BASMOMi,t , IVOLi,t , TVOLi,t , SKEWi,t , RELBASi,t ,
HPi,t , SPi,t )′ . Specifically, the vector Xi,t contains for each commodity i in month t: the
futures basis (BAS) in the spirit of Gorton and Rouwenhorst (2006), the momentum (MOM)
signal as in Miffre and Rallis (2007), the basis-momentum (BASMOM) signal of Boons and
Prado (2019), the idiosyncratic volatility (IVOL) signal as in Fernandez-Perez et al. (2016),
the total volatility (TVOL) signal, the skewness (SKEW) signal of Fernandez-Perez et al.
(2018), the relative basis (RELBAS) signal of Gu et al. (2019), the hedging pressure (HP)
signal of Basu and Miffre (2013) and the speculative pressure (SP) signal of Fan et al.
(2020).11 Appendix A presents a detailed description of the construction of these variables.
θt+1 captures the time fixed effects. κi picks up the commodity fixed effects. ηi,t+1 is the error
term associated with commodity market i at time t. Following Boons and Prado (2019), we
cluster the standard errors by time.12
       The results from the above predictive regressions are presented in Table 3. Column (1)
  11
     It is worth pointing out that the commitment of traders (CoT) dataset underpinning the computation
of the HP and SP variables is only available from 1986 onwards. Accordingly, the sample period associated
with either SP or HP is much shorter than our main sample.
  12
     One–way clustered standard errors are used to account for the correlation of the residuals within a
cluster. Since commodity futures returns are not strongly autocorrelated, it is sensible to cluster only by
time. In doing so, we account for the possible correlation between observations on different commodities
at the same point in time. Essentially, this is the same methodology as that of Boons and Prado (2019).
We have also tried a two-way clustering and obtained similar results. Another possibility is to compute the
Newey and West (1987) standard errors. In an untabulated analysis, we have tried this approach and found
that the results were stronger when using the Newey and West (1987) than when using the one-way clustered
standard errors.




                                                    9
contains the results from panel regressions of commodity returns on the lagged CYR. We
can see that CYR predicts future commodity returns with a positive sign. This result is
robust to the inclusion of commodity fixed effects (column (2)) or time fixed effects (column
(3)). When both commodity and time fixed effects are considered (column (4)), the CYR
remains significant (t-stat = 2.79). Since all independent variables are standardized, the
coefficient γ1 indicates that a one standard deviation increase in CYR predicts an increase in
returns of 5.16%. This effect stems solely from the variation in the CYR as return variations
across time and commodity markets have been accounted for, through fixed effects. Lastly,
as shown in the last column of Table 3 (column (5)), our evidence remains robust when we
control for the other commodity return predictors.


3.2       Single Sorts

The previous analysis reveals that CYR is a significant predictor of commodity futures
returns. However, the analysis does not speak to the economic value of the predictability.
To shed light on this, we implement the following CYR strategy. At the end of month t, we
sort the 27 commodities on their CYR signal. We build a “High” portfolio containing all
commodities with a CYR above the median and a “Low” portfolio containing the remaining
commodities.13 All commodities are equal-weighted in the portfolios.14 We then compute
the return of the “High-Low” portfolio for month t + 1 as the difference between the 1-month
returns of the High and Low portfolios. We repeat the aforementioned steps each month,
thus obtaining the time series of monthly returns on the CYR strategy.
       Table 4 reports the annualized average return, Newey and West (1987) t-statistics (with
a bandwidth of 6), and Sharpe ratios for the “High”, “Low” and “High-Low” portfolios.15
  13
     This sorting procedure is similar to that of Gorton et al. (2013). It has the advantage that it leads to
more well-diversified portfolios compared to an approach based on quantiles which would result in portfolios
containing very few commodities. However, we acknowledge that there are alternatives. To this end, in
Section 4, we employ alternative sorting procedures and reach very similar findings.
  14
     The equal-weighted approach is quite standard in the commodity literature (Boons and Prado, 2019;
Paschke et al., 2020). In a robustness check, we also build rank-weighted portfolios (see Table A.7 of the
appendix).
  15
     Throughout this paper, we employ the commonly used observations–based criterion for the bandwith of


                                                     10
We obtain a highly significant average nearby futures return of 6.93% per annum (t-stat
= 3.40) for the “High-Low” portfolio. We see that it is mainly the “High” portfolio which
contributes to the positive and significant “High-Low” return. This result is in line with
Boons and Prado (2019) who find that it is mainly the “High” portfolio that drives the
returns of the basis–momentum strategy.


3.3     Double Sorts

We next explore whether the relation between CYR and commodity futures returns persists
after controlling for established commodity return predictors in independent double sorts.
Specifically, we use the intersection of the “High” and “Low” CYR portfolios with the two
“High” and “Low” portfolios formed by sorting on a second variable selected from the follow-
ing: basis, momentum, basis-momentum, idiosyncratic volatility, total volatility, skewness,
relative basis, hedging pressure, and speculative pressure. If any of the above variables can
explain the relation between CYR and commodity futures returns, then the average return
of the “High-Low” CYR portfolio should be insignificant.
    Table 5 presents the average return of the portfolios created from independent double
sorts on the CYR and the control variable (name in row) as well as the average return of the
corresponding high minus low (“High-Low”) portfolios.16 Of particular interest is the average
“High-Low” CYR return within each control group, reported in the last column of the table.
For example, focusing on the last column of the “Basis” panel, we observe a 7.30% (6.37%)
average return of the “High-Low” CYR portfolio within the portfolio of commodities with
high (low) basis. Similarly, the returns of the CYR remain significant after controlling for
the Bartlett kernel of the Newey and West (1987) estimator: 4(T /100)2/9 where T denotes the total number
of observations. We round the window size to the nearest integer.
   16
      Table A.6 of the appendix summarizes the average monthly returns for single portfolio sorts on the control
variables (names in rows). To compute the strategy returns associated with a given signal, we proceed as
follows. At the end of each month, we sort all commodities based on the signal. We then buy (sell), in equal
weight, the commodities with a higher (lower) than median signal. We hold the positions for 1 month and
compute the High-Low portfolio return. Newey-West t-statistics (computed using 6 lags) are reported in
parentheses. The results confirm the cross-sectional predictive ability of these variables documented in the
literature.


                                                      11
predictors such as basis–momentum, skewness, hedging pressure, and speculative pressure.
However, when we focus on the “Low” idiosyncratic volatility, total volatility, and relative
basis portfolios, the “High-Low” CYR return is no longer significant. Overall, the results
suggest that the predictive power of the CYR is most discernible in the “High” portfolios.


3.4    Spanning Tests

We next examine whether the CYR factor (i.e., the return on the long-short CYR portfolio)
provides independent information for commodity futures returns beyond that of known com-
modity risk factors. We consider a broad range of strategies, namely the High-Low portfolio
returns based on the following signals: BAS, MOM, BASMOM, IVOL, TVOL, SKEW, REL-
BAS, HP, and SP. Table 6 contains the full sample correlations between the factor returns.
As the table shows, the return on the CYR is weakly correlated with that of the other risk
factors. One implication of this finding is that, alone, none of the existing strategies is able
to explain the performance of the CYR strategy.
   It is, however, possible that the strategies can collectively explain the performance of the
CYR strategy. To shed light on this, we turn to the spanning regression:

                                                 K
                                                 X
                                 rCY R,t = α +         βj Fj,t + ϵt ,                       (6)
                                                 j=1


where rCY R,t is the return on the High-Low CYR portfolio at time t. α is the intercept.
Economically, this intercept is informative about the average risk-adjusted return of the
High-Low CYR portfolio. βj is the slope parameter associated with Fj,t , which denotes the
return at time t of the strategy j.
   Table 7 documents that the intercepts are highly significant at the 5% level. This is
true, irrespective of whether we look at univariate or multivariate regressions. Moreover,
the risk-adjusted return of the CYR strategy (regression α) is of similar magnitude to the
average return of the long-short CYR strategy in Table 4. Collectively, the results confirm


                                              12
that the performance of the CYR strategy cannot be explained by exposure to well-known
commodity factors.


3.5       Relationship to Economic and Financial Variables

Szymanowska et al. (2014) show that commodity factors are useful to price the cross-section
of commodity returns. Bakshi et al. (2019) confirm this finding and go a step further by
documenting that changes in the investment opportunity set can help understand the perfor-
mance of commodity risk factors. This finding motivates us to directly examine the potential
link between the CYR and a broad range of macroeconomic variables that capture changes
in the investment opportunity set. The first set of variables reflects the state of the econ-
omy and financial market conditions. These variables include the growth rate of the U.S.
industrial production (∆IP ), the term spread (TERM) computed as the difference between
the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury bond and the 3-month U.S. Treasury bill rate, the
default return spread (DEF) defined as the difference between corporate and government
bond returns as a measure of credit risk, and the TED spread (TED) as the difference be-
tween the 3-month LIBOR and the 3-month U.S. Treasury bill rate, used as a proxy for
funding illiquidity (Brunnermeier et al., 2008).17 The data on corporate and government
bond returns used for the default return spread are collected from Amit Goyal’s webpage.18
We collect the remaining data from the FRED database of the Federal Reserve Bank of St
Louis.19
       One may argue that (i) these macroeconomic variables are measured with noise and (ii)
it would be interesting to cast our net wide and bring in equity risk factor data, which
are known to relate to changes in the investment opportunity set.20 The advantage of this
  17
     In an untabulated analysis, we have also included the VIX index and the trade-weighted USD index
against major currencies and found that they did not alter our findings.
  18
     http://www.hec.unil.ch/agoyal/.
  19
     We use the first release of the industrial production (vintage series) and lag the series by one month to
address issues related to data revision and publication lags.
  20
     For instance, Fama and French (1992) report a relationship between the value premium and market-
wide financial distress. Similarly, Liu and Zhang (2008) document a strong link between equity momentum



                                                     13
approach is that the equity factor returns are better measured and aggregate information
about the state of the economy from various sources. Accordingly, we use a benchmark factor
model that consists of factors related to the equity market. These include the market factor
(MKT), namely the return on the value-weighted portfolio of all US-based common stocks
in the CRSP database minus the one-month treasury bill rate, the size (small-minus-big,
SMB) factor, the value (high-minus-low, HML) factor, and the momentum factor (UMD).21
We obtain the monthly data on these factors from the website of Kenneth French.22 Finally,
we consider the liquidity factor of Pástor and Stambaugh (2003). The data on the liquidity
factor are collected from the website of Robert Stambaugh.23
    The results from contemporaneous regressions of the returns on the CYR strategy on
the above variables are presented in Table 8. We employ Newey-West (1987) standard er-
rors (computed using a bandwidth of 6) for the estimations. As the table shows, most of
the slope parameter estimates of the explanatory variables in the univariate regressions are
insignificant at the 5% level. Moreover, the variables explain very little of the variation in
the excess returns of the CYR strategy as indicated by the very low R2 coefficients shown
in the penultimate row of the table. The results from a multiple regression that includes
all the explanatory variables (last column), supports the findings from univariate regres-
sions.24 Overall, we conclude that these variables cannot explain the performance of the
CYR strategy.
returns and the change in industrial production.
  21
     For further details on the construction of these factors, we refer the interested reader to Fama and French
(1996).
  22
     https://mba.tuck.dartmouth.edu/pages/faculty/ken.french/data_library.html
  23
     http://finance.wharton.upenn.edu/~stambaug/
  24
     We omit the TED spread from this regression as the sample history for the LIBOR rate begins in January
1986. Thus, including the TED spread would lead to a considerably shorter sample.




                                                      14
4        What About . . .

4.1       Alternative Measures of CYR?

One may wonder to what extent the CYR signal is robust to the inclusion of the conve-
nience yield signals stemming from other nearby contracts. This concern motivates us to
compute an alternative measure of CYR based on the spread between the nearest conve-
nience yield volatility (σt−i (y (1,2) ) and the average of the next 5 convenience yield volatilities
(Next5Avg):25

                                         P12 h                              P6                       i
                  Next5Avg:         1
                                    12    i=1    σt−i (y   (1,2)
                                                                   ) − 51    j=2 σt−i (y
                                                                                           (j,j+1)
                                                                                                     ) ,   (7)


where σt (y (j,j+1) ) is the monthly volatility of the j th convenience yield (i.e., the one computed
using the j th and (j + 1)th contracts).
       Our untabulated analysis reveals that this alternative signal shares a correlation of 0.68
with our baseline CYR signal. Moreover, the trading strategy associated with this alternative
signal yields an average return of 4.78% (t-stat=2.51) and a Sharpe ratio of 0.32. These
estimates are comparable though sligthly lower than those associated with the baseline CYR
strategy (Mean=6.93%, Sharpe Ratio=0.46).


4.2       The Weighting Scheme?

One may wonder whether our results are sensitive to the specific sorting procedure followed
to create the long-short cost CYR portfolios or by the equal-weighting of the commodities
in these portfolios. To this end, we analyze the performance of the CYR strategy under the
following alternative scenarios: (i) instead of using the median rank to form the long-short
CYR portfolio, we sort all commodities based on CYR and then take the spread in the
returns of the top and bottom tertiles, and (ii) we employ a scaled rank-based weighting
  25
    The choice of five convenience yields is motivated by the maximum number of convenience yields available
across all commodity markets.


                                                      15
instead of an equal-weighting scheme.26
       Table A.7 of the appendix reports the excess returns of the “High-Low” CYR portfolios
based on the above two scenarios. We see that the returns of the strategy remain significant
and notably higher in some cases compared to the baseline CYR strategy. For example,
using tertiles for the sorting, leads to an increase in the annualized average excess return
of the strategy to 8.47% (t-stat.=2.91) and to a very similar Sharpe ratio (=0.44). Using
rank-based weights leads to an annualized average excess return of 8.10% (t-stat. = 3.02).
In sum, our results remain robust to the above considerations.


4.3       Decision Delay?

Our baseline analysis is based on the assumption that the portfolios are formed immediately
after the computation of the trading signal. One may argue that this assumption is not always
true in real-life, as investors may face decision delays. This means that there might exist a
time gap between the measurement of the trading signal and the practical implementation
of the strategy (see, Paschke et al., 2020).
       To account for the possibility of decision delays, we allow for a one month gap between the
measurement of the signal and the implementation of the trade. At the end of month t, we
compute CYR based on data observed over the past 12-month period. We then implement
the trading strategy at the end of month t+1. The last column of Table A.7 shows the
results from this modified strategy. The table clearly indicates that the modified strategy
has very similar performance to the baseline CYR strategy (average excess return of 7.30%
compared to 6.93% for the original strategy) and a similar Sharpe ratio (0.50 vs. 0.46 for
the baseline strategy). These findings lead us to conclude that the performance of the CYR
strategy remains robust once we account for decision delays.
  26
    We scale the rank-weights to ensure that the weights in each portfolio add up to 1. See also Asness et al.
(2013) and Koijen et al. (2018) for a similar approach.




                                                     16
4.4       The Sample Choice?

We conduct a series of robustness checks to examine the extent to which our results may be
driven by the choice of sample period. First, rather than starting our sample period from
the first available data point (i.e., July 7, 1959), we focus on the period from January 1,
1990 to December 31, 2018.27 The untabulated results indicate that the performance of the
strategy is robust.
       Second, we study the performance of the CYR strategy across different volatility regimes.
For each trading day, we create an equal-weighted average of all commodity returns. We
refer to this quantity as the daily commodity index return. Each month, we compute the
volatility of the daily commodity index returns observed during the month (Prokopczuk
et al., 2019). By following these steps, we obtain a monthly time-series of commodity index
return volatility. We then use the median of the time-series of monthly volatility to identify
the high and low volatility states. To be specific, the high (low) volatility regime consists of
all observations with volatility higher (lower) than the median volatility. For each of these
two states, we calculate the average return, variance, and Sharpe ratio of the CYR strategy.
Table A.8 of the appendix establishes that the strategy is profitable in both regimes, and
more so, in the high volatility regime.
       Third, we re-compute the return of the CYR strategy when we drop one of the 6 com-
modity sectors. We do this in order to check whether our results are driven by a specific
sector. Table A.9 demonstrates that the average return of the CYR strategy remains sta-
tistically and economically significant in all cases as evidenced by the annualized average
returns ranging from 6.13%, when we exclude the grains sector, to 8.92%, when we exclude
the softs sector.
  27
    We choose January 1, 1990 as the start of our sample because it corresponds to the earliest date when
data on all 27 commodity markets are available.




                                                   17
4.5    The Formation Period?

In our main analysis, the CYR signal is based on a formation period of 12 months. One may
naturally wonder if the performance of the strategy is robust to alternative formation periods.
In Table A.10 of the appendix, we report the summary statistics of the CYR strategy based
on formation periods of 1, 6, 12, and 18 months, respectively. The results clearly indicate
that the CYR strategy yields positive and significant average returns when using alternative
formation periods, including the 18-month horizon. Comparing all formation periods, we
can see that the performance of the CYR strategy peaks at the 12-month horizon.


4.6    Spreading Returns?

Szymanowska et al. (2014) and Boons and Prado (2019) highlight that it is interesting to
analyze the spreading return. At each point in time, we compute the spreading return of
each commodity market as the difference between the return on the first nearby contract and
that of the second nearby contract. By repeating these steps over time and for all commodity
markets, we obtain the time-series of spreading returns for each commodity.
   At the end of month t, we sort all commodity markets by their CYR risk measure.
We then create the high (low) equal-weighted portfolio by opening long (short) spreading
positions in all markets associated with a CYR measure that is higher (lower) than the
median CYR. The High-Low CYR spreading return is simply the difference between the
performance of the aforementioned high and low CYR spreading portfolios. Table A.11
of the appendix shows that this strategy yields a positive and significant average return
(0.81%, t-stat = 1.99). Pursuing our analysis, we compute the spreading returns associated
with our main control variables and use the resulting time-series as explanatory variables
in the spanning regression. We find that the CYR spreading returns are spanned by the
spreading returns of some of the popular commodity trading signals (see Table A.12 of the
online appendix).



                                              18
4.7       Transaction Costs?

An important question is whether the CYR strategy remains profitable once transaction
costs are accounted for. To provide an answer to this question, we analyze the impact of
transaction costs on the returns of the CYR strategy. In the absence of bid-ask data for the
commodities under consideration, we need to model the transaction costs.
       We follow a two-step strategy. First, similar to prior studies (e.g. Miffre and Rallis, 2007;
Paschke et al., 2020), we assume a fixed transaction cost of 0.033% per futures contract:


                                                 (i)
                                             T Ct = 0.033%                                               (8)


              (i)
where T Ct          denotes the transaction cost from trading a futures contract on commodity
i at time t. The above value is motivated by the work of Locke and Venkatesh (1997)
who analyze the transaction costs in the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) in 1992. The
authors document that the transaction cost associated with futures trading is low and ranges
between 0.0004% and 0.033%. Therefore, the assumed value in Equation (8) corresponds to
the most conservative estimate. Furthermore, it is consistent with the range of transaction
costs computed by Ferguson and Mann (2001).
       Second, we follow the approach of Szakmary et al. (2010) to estimate transaction costs.
The authors assume a fixed brokerage fee of $10 per contract and a bid-ask spread equal to
one tick.28 The transaction cost is then estimated as follows:


                                      (i)   10 + T ick size(i) × CM(i)
                                  T Ct =                (i)
                                                                                                         (9)
                                                       Ft × CM(i)

             (i)
where T C t is the transaction cost estimate of market i at time t. T ick size(i) is the minimum
tick size for commodity i. CM (i) is the contract multiplier for commodity i (units of the
underlying commodity deliverable per contract). The data on the minimum tick size and
  28
    This approach is also employed by Paschke et al. (2020) to account for the effect of transaction costs on
their curve momentum strategy.



                                                       19
the contract multiplier are obtained from the product specification on the webpage of the
                                                       (i)
exchange where each commodity trades. Ft                     is the price of the first nearby futures contract
of commodity i at time t.
      We compute the monthly return of the CYR strategy net of transaction costs as:

                                                    N
                                                 1X       (i)    (i)
                                       Rt = Rt −
                                       e               T Ot · T Ct                                          (10)
                                                 2 i=1


where R
      et denotes the net return on the CYR strategy at time t. Rt is the return of the CYR
                             (i)
strategy at time t. T Ot denotes the turnover of commodity i at time t. The turnover for
commodity i at time t is computed as follows:


                                                 (i)           (i)   (i)
                                             T Ot = |wt − w̄t |                                             (11)


           (i)
where w̄t denotes the weight on asset i shortly before the position is rebalanced at time t:

                                                         (i)         (i)
                                            (i)  w (1 + Rt )
                                          w̄t = N t−1                                                       (12)
                                                Pt (i)       (i)
                                                  wt−1 (1 + Rt )
                                                   i=1


As pointed out by Paschke et al. (2020) the turnover arises not only from the end-of-month
rebalancing of the strategy but also from the rollover of futures contracts. In the latter case,
the turnover is based on the difference between the weight on the ith nearby contract after
the rollover and the weight on the (i − 1)th contract before the rollover.
      Table A.13 of the appendix presents the summary statistics of the transaction cost esti-
mate associated with each market. We can see that the average transaction cost, reported
in percentage point, displays some variations across commodity markets. These differences
likely reflect true cross-sectional differences in the liquidity of commodity markets. They
might also be affected by the heterogeneity of the beginning of the sample period at the in-
dividual commodity level.29 At the end of each period, we compute the average transaction
 29
      Digging deeper, we notice a declining trend in the transaction cost estimates over time. This is consistent


                                                          20
cost estimate across all markets. We then calculate the time-series average of this estimate
and report it in the last row of Table A.13. As we can see, the average transaction cost
estimate is 0.10%, which is quite comparable to the average estimate (0.08%) of Marshall
et al. (2012).
    Table A.14 of the appendix shows the excess return of the CYR strategy after accounting
for transaction costs. The figures associated with the net returns are fairly similar to those
of the raw returns. This observation leads us to the conclusion that transaction costs have
a limited impact on the performance of the strategy.



5     Conclusion

In this paper, we quantify the convenience yield risk associated with individual commodity
markets. We analyze the information content of the convenience yield risk for future returns.
In a panel setting, the convenience yield risk predicts future commodity returns with a
positive and statistically significant coefficient. We present a simple trading strategy to
shed light on the economic value of the predictability. This strategy delivers a significant
annualized average return of 6.93% and an annualized Sharpe ratio close of 0.46.
    Pursuing our analysis, we find that existing commodity factors, e.g. carry, momentum,
and basis-momentum, and prominent macroeconomic variables do not fully explain the per-
formance of the convenience yield risk strategy. Moreover, the profitability of the strategy
is not eroded by transaction costs and survives a battery of robustness checks.




with the literature, e.g. Szakmary et al. (2010), Paschke et al. (2020), and Lauter and Prokopczuk (2022).


                                                    21
References

Asness, C. S., Moskowitz, T. J., and Pedersen, L. H. (2013). Value and momentum every-
  where. Journal of Finance, 68(3):929–985.

Back, J., Prokopczuk, M., and Rudolf, M. (2013). Seasonality and the valuation of commod-
  ity options. Journal of Banking & Finance, 37(2):273–290.

Bakshi, G., Gao, X., and Rossi, A. (2019). Understanding the sources of risk underlying the
  cross section of commodity returns. Management Science, 65(2):619–641.

Basu, D. and Miffre, J. (2013). Capturing the risk premium of commodity futures: The role
  of hedging pressure. Journal of Banking & Finance, 37(7):2652–2664.

Boons, M. and Prado, M. P. (2019). Basis-momentum. Journal of Finance, 74(1):239–279.

Brennan, M. J. (1958). The supply of storage. American Economic Review, 48(1):50–72.

Brunnermeier, M. K., Nagel, S., and Pedersen, L. H. (2008). Carry trades and currency
  crashes. NBER macroeconomics annual, 23(1):313–348.

de Groot, W., Karstanje, D., and Zhou, W. (2014). Exploiting commodity momentum along
  the futures curves. Journal of Banking & Finance, 48:79–93.

Fama, E. F. and French, K. R. (1992). The cross-section of expected stock returns. the
  Journal of Finance, 47(2):427–465.

Fama, E. F. and French, K. R. (1996). Multifactor explanations of asset pricing anomalies.
  Journal of Finance, 51(1):55–84.

Fan, J. H., Fernandez-Perez, A., Fuertes, A.-M., and Miffre, J. (2020). Speculative pressure.
  Journal of Futures Markets, 40(4):575–597.

Ferguson, M. F. and Mann, S. C. (2001). Execution costs and their intraday variation in
  futures markets. The Journal of Business, 74(1):125–160.

                                             22
Fernandez-Perez, A., Frijns, B., Fuertes, A.-M., and Miffre, J. (2018). The skewness of
  commodity futures returns. Journal of Banking & Finance, 86:143–158.

Fernandez-Perez, A., Fuertes, A.-M., and Miffre, J. (2016). Is idiosyncratic volatility priced
  in commodity futures markets? International Review of Financial Analysis, 46:219–226.

Gorton, G. and Rouwenhorst, K. G. (2006). Facts and fantasies about commodity futures.
  Financial Analysts Journal, 62(2):47–68.

Gorton, G. B., Hayashi, F., and Rouwenhorst, K. G. (2013). The fundamentals of commodity
  futures returns. Review of Finance, 17(1):35–105.

Gu, M., Kang, W., Lou, D., and Tang, K. (2019). Relative basis. Working Paper.

Kaldor, N. (1939). Speculation and economic stability. Review of Economic Studies, 7(1):1–
  27.

Koijen, R. S., Moskowitz, T. J., Pedersen, L. H., and Vrugt, E. B. (2018). Carry. Journal
  of Financial Economics, 127(2):197–225.

Lauter, T. and Prokopczuk, M. (2022). Measuring commodity market quality. Journal of
  Banking & Finance, pages 1–80.

Li, Y. and Yang, L. (2013). Asset-pricing implications of dividend volatility. Management
  Science, 59(9):2036–2055.

Liu, L. X. and Zhang, L. (2008). Momentum profits, factor pricing, and macroeconomic risk.
  Review of Financial Studies, 21(6):2417–2448.

Locke, P. R. and Venkatesh, P. (1997). Futures market transaction costs. Journal of Futures
  Markets, 17(2):229.

Marshall, B. R., Nguyen, N. H., and Visaltanachoti, N. (2012). Commodity liquidity mea-
  surement and transaction costs. Review of Financial Studies, 25(2):599–638.

                                             23
Miffre, J. and Rallis, G. (2007). Momentum strategies in commodity futures markets. Journal
  of Banking & Finance, 31(6):1863–1886.

Moskowitz, T. J., Ooi, Y. H., and Pedersen, L. H. (2012). Time series momentum. Journal
  of Financial Economics, 104(2):228–250.

Newey, W. K. and West, K. D. (1987). A simple, positive semi-definite, heteroskedasticity
  and autocorrelation consistent covariance matrix. Econometrica, 55(3):703.

Paschke, R., Prokopczuk, M., and Wese Simen, C. (2020). Curve momentum. Journal of
  Banking & Finance, 113:1–17.

Pástor, L. and Stambaugh, R. F. (2003). Liquidity risk and expected stock returns. Journal
  of Political economy, 111(3):642–685.

Prokopczuk, M., Stancu, A., and Symeonidis, L. (2019). The economic drivers of commodity
  market volatility. Journal of International Money and Finance, 98:1–13.

Prokopczuk, M. and Wu, Y. (2013). The determinants of convenience yields. Working Paper.

Schwartz, E. S. (1997). The stochastic behavior of commodity prices: Implications for
  valuation and hedging. Journal of Finance, 52(3):923–973.

Singleton, K. J. (2014). Investor flows and the 2008 boom/bust in oil prices. Management
  Science, 60(2):300–318.

Sørensen, C. (2002). Modeling seasonality in agricultural commodity futures. Journal of
  Futures Markets, 22(5):393–426.

Stancu, A., Symeonidis, L., Wese Simen, C., and Zhao, L. (2021). The dynamics of storage
  costs.

Szakmary, A. C., Shen, Q., and Sharma, S. C. (2010). Trend-following trading strategies in
  commodity futures: A re-examination. Journal of Banking & Finance, 34(2):409–426.

                                            24
Szymanowska, M., Roon, F., Nijman, T., and Goorbergh, R. (2014). An anatomy of com-
  modity futures risk premia. Journal of Finance, 69(1):453–482.

Telser, L. G. (1958). Futures trading and the storage of cotton and wheat. Journal of
  Political Economy, 66(3):233–255.

Working, H. (1949). The theory of price of storage. American Economic Review, 39(6):1254–
  1262.




                                           25
                  Table 1: Summary Statistics for the Convenience Yield

This table presents the summary statistics of the nearest convenience yield, y (1,2) , for the
27 commodities under consideration, at the monthly frequency. We classify the commodities
into 6 sectors: Energy, Grains, Livestock, Metals, Oilseeds, and Softs. For each market, we
report the mean (Mean), standard deviation (Std. Dev.), first order autocorrelation coefficient
(AR(1)), skewness (Skew), kurtosis (Kurt), and number of observations (Obs.). The mean
and standard deviation are reported in percentage points. The sample period is from July
1959 to December 2018.

 Sector        Commodity       Mean    Std. Dev.     AR(1)      Skew        Kurt       Obs.
               WTI Crude       7.26      25.03        0.76       1.16        6.32      428
               Heating Oil      8.26     51.82        0.35       9.51      129.77      390
   Energy
               Natural Gas     10.45    173.35        0.18      10.79      147.84      345
               Gasoil           6.68     28.69        0.59       4.98       40.40      351
               Gasoline        18.65     50.14        0.41       2.23       12.25      385
               Corn            -0.88     21.98        0.62       7.40       88.85      714

   Grains
               Oats             1.97     24.51        0.73       3.36      22.93       713
               Rough Rice      -4.25     23.16        0.52       4.30      27.98       359
               Chicago Wheat    2.44     26.88        0.64       5.94       60.92      714


   Livestock
               Feeder Cattle    6.85     14.66        0.62       0.34       4.92       562
               Live Cattle      7.94     21.44        0.61       1.00        4.56      649
               Lean Hogs       13.39     62.81        0.60       1.26        5.72      392
               Copper           6.95     12.00        0.84       2.24       10.14      361
               Gold             0.53      1.47        0.58       2.18       22.87      527
   Metals
               Palladium        3.99      6.48        0.67       4.78       49.25      381
               Platinum        3.75       4.24        0.89       2.06       9.97       392
               Silver           0.06      1.93        0.41      -5.03       94.48      527
               Soybean Oil      6.32     22.38        0.74       3.77       24.82      714

   Oilseeds
               Canola          -1.52      8.64        0.60       2.61       12.21      442
               Soybeans         8.37     39.60        0.34       9.31      125.64      714
               Soybean Meal    10.65     30.63        0.56       4.20       26.77      714
               Cotton           6.43     61.04        0.46      17.81      363.24      710
               Lumber          -1.44     23.95        0.73       0.90        5.04      390
               Cocoa            2.72     16.72        0.86       2.79      12.34       713
   Softs       Orange Juice     4.82     31.11        0.60      10.07      158.96      621
               Coffee           3.49     22.74        0.84       2.57       12.34      556
               Sugar            4.01     23.03        0.79       1.81       9.09       694


                                              26
                  Table 2: Summary Statistics for Convenience Yield Risk

This table reports the summary statistics of the convenience yield risk signal. The conve-
nience yield risk is computed as in Equation (4). We report for each commodity the mean,
standard deviation (Std. Dev.), first order autocorrelation coefficient (AR(1)), skewness
(Skew), kurtosis (Kurt), and number of observations (Obs.). The dataset contains 27 com-
modities divided into 6 sectors: Energy, Grains, Livestock, Metals, Oilseeds, and Softs. The
sample period runs from July 1959 to December 2018.

 Sector        Commodity       Mean    Std. Dev.   AR(1)      Skew       Kurt       Obs.
               WTI Crude       1.41      1.29       0.97      1.72       6.40       430
               Heating Oil     0.97      0.97       0.94      1.65       6.16       390

   Energy
               Natural Gas     2.31      2.43       0.88       0.47       3.42      345
               Gasoil          0.65      0.61       0.81      -1.08      17.24      354
               Gasoline        1.83      1.16       0.91      0.80        4.52      385
               Corn            0.23      0.58       0.95       1.84      7.41       703

   Grains
               Oats             0.35     0.80       0.93       0.37       4.22      703
               Rough Rice      0.06      0.84       0.90       0.54      5.58       361
               Chicago Wheat   -0.09     0.75       0.96      -2.61      17.23      703


   Livestock
               Feeder Cattle   0.38      0.54       0.85      -0.23      4.09       565
               Live Cattle     0.83      0.68       0.95      0.25       3.17       649
               Lean Hogs       1.17      0.95       0.90      0.86       3.94       391
               Copper          0.32      0.56       0.95       2.62      10.19      361
               Gold            -0.01     0.19       0.85      -0.80      15.44      528

   Metals
               Palladium        0.21     0.55       0.97       3.13      15.51      375
               Platinum        0.07      0.29       0.93       0.84       6.04      392
               Silver          -0.01     0.14       0.89      -2.55      19.27      528
               Soybean Oil      0.09     0.73       0.94       1.90      13.29      703

   Oilseeds
               Canola          -0.22     0.54       0.94      -1.74       8.12      441
               Soybeans        -0.05     0.61       0.84       0.18       9.04      703
               Soybean Meal     0.53     1.32       0.94       1.49      10.20      703
               Cotton          0.34      0.76       0.94      -0.99      9.19       703
               Lumber          0.69      0.96       0.95      0.26       3.74       389
               Cocoa           0.38      0.51       0.95      1.63       6.83       703
   Softs       Orange Juice    0.46      0.52       0.89      0.70       3.97       623
               Coffee          0.65      1.07       0.96      1.97       6.87       557
               Sugar           0.81      0.85       0.93      1.52       7.72       694


                                            27
                         Table 3: Predictive Panel Regressions

This table presents the estimation results of the following panel regression model:

                      ri,t+1 = γ0 + γ1 CYRi,t + γ2′ Xi,t + θt+1 + κi + ηi,t+1

where ri,t+1 denotes the return on commodity i in month t+1. CY Ri,t is the convenience yield
risk of commodity i in month t. Xi,t denotes the vector of control variables which includes
the basis, momentum, basis-momentum, idiosyncratic volatility, total volatility, skewness,
relative basis, hedging pressure, and speculative pressure. θt+1 is the indicator variable for
each month (time fixed effect). κi is the indicator variable for commodity i (commodity
fixed effects). ηi,t+1 is the error term of commodity i observed at t + 1. We only report
the coefficient γ1 along with the associated t-statistic using standard errors clustered by time.
The “Time FE” and “Commodity FE” rows indicate whether time or commodity fixed effects
are employed in the panel estimation.


                         (1)             (2)             (3)              (4)          (5)
 CYR                    3.94            5.64             3.53            5.16          4.13
 (t-stat)              (2.26)          (2.74)           (2.18)          (2.79)        (2.28)
 X                       No              No               No              No           Yes
 Time FE                 No              No              Yes             Yes           Yes
 Commodity FE            No             Yes               No             Yes           Yes
 R2                     0.01            0.01             0.18            0.19          0.20




                                                28
          Table 4: Performance of the Convenience Yield Risk Strategy

This table reports the average return with the associated t-statistic (in parentheses) using
Newey and West (1987) standard errors (computed using 6 lags), and the annualized Sharpe
ratio for portfolios sorted on convenience yield risk. We sort the 27 commodities by their
CYR at the end of each month and form a “High” portfolio containing the commodities as-
sociated with a CYR greater than the median CYR and a “Low” portfolio containing the
remaining commodities. We also report the average return on the “High-Low” spread portfo-
lio. The commodities in each portfolio are equally-weighted. The sample period is from July
1959 to December 2018.

                         High                      Low                    High–Low
 Av. Return               7.11                     0.19                      6.93
 (t-stat)                (3.31)                   (0.23)                    (3.40)
 Sharpe Ratio             0.46                     0.01                      0.46




                                            29
                         Table 5: Independent Double Portfolio Sorts

This table presents the average monthly excess returns for portfolios formed by independently
sorting on the convenience yield risk (CYR) and each of the following signals: basis, mo-
mentum, basis-momentum, idiosyncratic volatility, total volatility, skewness, relative basis,
hedging pressure, and speculative pressure. Using the median of the two series as breakpoints,
we form four portfolios from the intersection of the two CYR portfolios and the two portfolios
based on the variable [name in row]. The last column of the table (“High–Low”) shows the
average returns of the long-short portfolio which buys the commodities in the “High” CYR
group and sells the commodities in the “Low” CYR group. The sample covers 27 commodities
for the period from July 1959 to December 2018. Returns are annualized and in percentage
points. t-statistics based on Newey and West (1987) standard errors (using a bandwidth of
6) are reported in parentheses.

                                                     High                Low         High–Low
 Basis                                   High        11.32 (5.12)     3.95 (1.76)    7.30 (3.26)
                                         Low         4.14 (2.04)     -2.05 (-1.01)   6.37 (3.12)
                                         High–Low    7.11 (3.69)      6.04 (3.07)
 Momentum                                High        13.17 (5.46)     3.86 (1.59)    9.63 (3.95)
                                         Low         0.66 (0.34)     -2.63 (-1.38)   3.26 (1.69)
                                         High–Low    12.09 (5.69)     6.14 (2.89)
 Basis-Momentum                          High        14.41 (6.24)     7.32 (3.10)    6.30 (2.66)
                                         Low         -0.76 (-0.38)   -4.76 (-2.39)   4.30 (2.11)
                                         High–Low    14.57 (6.89)    12.60 (5.88)
 Idiosyncr. Volatility                   High        13.66 (4.73)     2.70 (1.65)    10.78 (3.67)
                                         Low         1.17 (1.26)     -1.52 (-0.63)    2.72 (1.60)
                                         High–Low    12.27 (3.97)     4.53 (1.73)
 Total Volatility                        High        9.34 (3.70)     -1.89 (-0.74)   11.15 (4.38)
                                         Low         2.92 (1.75)      0.81 (0.49)    2.02 (1.21)
                                         High–Low    6.43 (3.07)     -2.72 (-1.30)
 Skewness                                High        10.55 (4.33)    -0.22 (-0.09)   10.77 (4.42)
                                         Low         4.44 (2.25)      0.13 (0.06)    4.32 (2.19)
                                         High–Low    6.11 (3.23)     -0.34 (-0.18)
 Relative Basis                          High        9.21 (4.12)      2.67 (1.19)    6.54 (2.92)
                                         Low         3.57 (1.66)     -0.56 (-0.26)   4.12 (1.91)
                                         High–Low    5.65 (3.22)      3.23 (1.84)
 Hedging Pressure                        High        7.87 (3.00)      1.18 (0.45)    6.69 (2.55)
                                         Low         2.85 (1.22)     -5.56 (-2.37)   8.41 (3.59)
                                         High–Low    5.02 (2.12)      6.73 (2.85)
 Speculative Pressure                    High        2.26 (0.98)     -4.38 (-1.91)   6.64 (2.89)
                                         Low         6.98 (2.60)      0.70 (0.26)    6.28 (2.34)
                                         High–Low    -4.72 (-1.95)   -5.08 (-2.11)




                                             30
                                       Table 6: Correlations between Commodity Factors

     This table reports the full sample correlations between the returns on the following commodity factors: convenience yield risk
     (CYR), market (MRKT), basis (BAS), momentum (MOM), basis-momentum (BASMOM), idiosyncratic volatility (IVOL),
     total volatility (TVOL), skewness (SKEW), relative basis (RELBAS), speculative pressure (SP), and hedging pressure (HP).
     The sample includes 27 commodities and spans the period from July 1959 to December 2018.

                   MRKT         BAS       MOM       BASMOM        IVOL       TVOL       SKEW      RELBAS         SP         HP
31    CYR           0.06        0.09      0.06        0.12          0.01       0.01       0.03      0.00       -0.02       -0.02
      MRKT                      0.03      0.19        0.11         -0.01      -0.01      -0.01     -0.07       -0.04       -0.04
      BAS                                 0.37        0.44         0.03        0.03      -0.08      0.34       -0.02        0.05
      MOM                                             0.27         0.03        0.03      -0.05     -0.07       -0.01       -0.02
      BASMOM                                                       -0.05      -0.05       0.03      0.26        0.00        0.06
      IVOL                                                                     1.00       0.14     -0.05       -0.05       -0.17
      TVOL                                                                                0.15     -0.05       -0.05       -0.17
      SKEW                                                                                         -0.03       -0.15       -0.08
      RELBAS                                                                                                   -0.01       0.08
      SP                                                                                                                    0.72
                                                 Table 7: Spanning Regressions

     This table reports the results from spanning regressions of the CYR strategy returns on the returns of an equally-weighted
     commodity market portfolio (MRKT), and the returns of the strategies based on the basis (BAS), momentum (MOM), basis-
     momentum (BASMOM), idiosyncratic volatility (IVOL), total volatility (TVOL), skewness (SKEW), relative basis (RELBAS),
     speculative pressure (SP), and hedging pressure (HP), respectively. The sample covers the period from July 1959 to December
     2018. Returns are annualized and expressed in percentage points. t-statistics using Newey and West (1987) standard errors
     (using 6 lags) are reported in parentheses below the estimated coefficients.

      Variable       (1)      (2)      (3)      (4)       (5)      (6)      (7)      (8)     (9)       (10)       (11)      (12)
      α             6.68     6.27     6.37     5.04      6.92     6.91     6.69     6.93     7.71      7.76       4.60      6.46
                   (3.40)   (2.86)   (3.24)   (2.21)    (3.26)   (3.26)   (3.02)   (3.09)   (3.20)    (3.18)    (2.09)    (2.87)
      MRKT          0.07                                                                                          0.05     0.01
                   (0.74)                                                                                       (0.53)    (0.16)
      BAS                    0.09                                                                                 0.06     0.16
                            (1.58)                                                                              (0.92)    (2.01)
32    MOM                             0.06                                                                        0.00     -0.01
                                     (0.87)                                                                     (0.00)    (-0.11)
      BASMOM                                   0.13                                                              0.11      -0.03
                                              (2.12)                                                            (1.51)    (-0.31)
      IVOL                                               0.01                                                    -0.17     -2.05
                                                        (0.36)                                                  (-0.32)   (-2.11)
      TVOL                                                        0.01                                           0.18       2.13
                                                                 (0.39)                                         (0.34)    (2.26)
      SKEW                                                                 0.03                                  0.03       0.16
                                                                          (0.75)                                (0.72)    (2.71)
      RELBAS                                                                        0.00                         -0.04     -0.08
                                                                                   (0.03)                       (-0.57)   (-0.88)
      SP                                                                                     -0.02                          0.02
                                                                                            (-0.35)                       (0.20)
      HP                                                                                               -0.02               -0.01
                                                                                                      (-0.47)             (-0.09)
      R2            0.00     0.01     0.00     0.02     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.02      0.04
      Obs           713      713      713      713      713       713      713      713      395       395       713       395
                                     Table 8: Relationship to Economic and Financial Variables

     This table reports the results from time series regressions of the CYR strategy returns on economic and financial variables. ∆IP
     is the growth rate in the industrial production (based on first release data), TERM is the term spread (10-year government bond
     yield minus the 3-month treasury bill yield), DEF is the default return spread (difference between the corporate and government
     bond returns), TED is the TED spread (difference between the 3-month LIBOR rate and the 3-month treasury bill rate). MKT is
     the market factor. SMB (small minus big) denotes the size factor. HML (high-minus low) is the value factor. UMD represents
     the momentum factor as defined in Fama and French (1996). LIQ is the Pástor and Stambaugh (2003) market liquidity factor.
     The sample period is from July 1959 to December 2018.a Returns are annualized and in percentage terms. We report the t-
     statistics based on Newey and West (1987) standard errors (computed using a bandwidth of 6) in parentheses below the estimated
     coefficients.

      Intercept      6.58        11.05         6.95         5.67         7.49        6.99         6.39         6.95         6.37        10.51
                    (2.92)       (2.97)       (3.29)       (1.39)       (3.45)      (3.29)       (3.07)       (3.24)       (3.13)      (2.92)
      ∆IP            1.71                                                                                                                0.30
                    (0.70)                                                                                                             (0.10)
      TERM                        -2.29                                                                                                 -2.07
33                               (-1.54)                                                                                               (-1.44)
      DEF                                      -1.10                                                                                    -0.73
                                              (-0.74)                                                                                  (-0.44)
      TED                                                   3.19
                                                           (0.45)
      MKT                                                               -1.09                                                           -0.74
                                                                       (-1.83)                                                         (-1.17)
      SMB                                                                            -0.33                                               0.51
                                                                                    (-0.48)                                            (0.73)
      HML                                                                                         1.70                                   1.48
                                                                                                 (1.81)                                (1.43)
      UMD                                                                                                      -0.03                     0.09
                                                                                                              (-0.05)                  (0.13)
      LIQ                                                                                                                   -0.50       -0.26
                                                                                                                           (-1.04)     (-0.57)
      R sq.         0.07%        0.39%        0.09%        0.09%        0.81%       0.03%        0.78%        0.00%        0.34%       1.85%
      Obs.           713          714          714          396          714         714          714          714           677         677

       a
         The data for the TED spread start from January 1986 and for the LIQ factor start in August 1968. We omit the TED spread from the multiple
     regression of the last column to avoid substantially reducing the sample length.
       Appendix

          To

“Convenience Yield Risk”




           34
Appendix A

This appendix describes the construction of the control variables. The signals used to con-
struct the commodity risk factors are computed as follows:

                                    
                                      (i)  (j)
                                                                      365
                              BASt = ft − ft                   (j)  (i)
                                                                                  ,                        (13)
                                                              Mt − Mt
                                    12
                                    X   (1)
                             MOMt =    rt−j ,                                                              (14)
                                        j=1
                                        12
                                        X         12
                                                  X
                                            (1)       (2)
                        BASMOMt =          rt−j −    rt−j ,                                                (15)
                                        j=1                j=1

                             IVOLt = σt (ϵ),                                                               (16)
                                              N
                                    1 X
                            TVOLt =       (rn,t − µ̂n,t )2 ,                                               (17)
                                    N n=1
                                                                                                   !
                                                     (1)         (2)          (2)        (3)
                                                    ft     − ft              ft       − ft
                         RELBASt = 365               (2)          (1)
                                                                        −     (3)            (2)
                                                                                                       ,   (18)
                                                  Mt       − Mt              Mt       − Mt
                                       D
                                        "               #
                                    1 X
                            SKEWt =       (rd,t − µ̂t )3 /v̂t3 ,                                           (19)
                                    D d=1

          (i)
where ft        is the logarithm of the price of the ith nearby futures contract at time t and
  (i)
Mt      denotes its time to maturity in days. The return on the nearest and second nearest
                                  (1)         (2)
futures contracts are denoted rt and rt , respectively, and are computed as in Equation (1).
σt (ϵ) corresponds to the monthly standard deviation on the residuals of a regression of daily
nearest futures returns on a constant and the daily value of the basis (BAS), momentum
(MOM), and basis-momentum (BASMOM), estimated in each month t. In Equation (17),
rn,t is the return of the nearest futures contract on day n of month t, and µ̂n,t is the mean
of the daily returns in month t. In Equation (19), D is the number of daily returns for the
specific commodity in the 12–month window from months t-11 to t, and µ̂t (v̂t2 ) is the sample
mean (variance) of the daily returns over the above 12–month window.
     Hedging pressure (HP) is computed as the fraction of long minus short positions over the


                                                         35
total number of positions. Speculative pressure (SP) is computed in a similar way by using
the positions of the non-commercial traders instead. Positions data are obtained from the
Commitment of Traders (CoT) report used in several other studies (e.g., Basu and Miffre,
2013; Fan et al., 2020). It is worth pointing out that the CoT dataset underpinning the
computation of the HP and SP variables is only available from 1986 onwards. Accordingly,
the sample period associated with these two variables is much shorter than our main sample.
   To compute the strategy returns associated with a given signal, we proceed as follows.
At the end of each month, we sort all commodities based on the signal. We then buy (sell),
in equal weight, the commodities with a higher (lower) than median signal. We hold the
positions for 1 month and compute the High-Low portfolio return.




                                            36
37




            Figure A.1: Relative Frequency of Commodities in the “High” Convenience Yield Risk Portfolio

     This figure shows the percentage of months a particular commodity is included in the “High” convenience yield risk portfolio
     (grey bars) and “High” basis portfolio (black bars). The commodities are sorted on the convenience yield risk (basis) to form
     two portfolios, a “High” portfolio which includes the commodities with the highest convenience yield risk (basis) and a “Low”
     portfolios which includes the commodities with the lowest convenience yield risk (basis). The different commodity markets are
     labeled with their Bloomberg ticker (see Table A.1 of the appendix for details).
                                    Table A.1: Description of the Commodity Futures Data

     This table provides details on the commodity futures data. The 27 commodities are divided into 6 sectors [names in first column].
     The second and third columns show the name of the commodity and the corresponding Bloomberg ticker. The fourth column
     reports the exchange on which the contract trades using the following abbreviations: ICE (Intercontinental Exchange), NYMEX
     (New York Mercantile Exchange), COMEX (Commodity Exchange), CBOT (Chicago Board of Trade), and the CME (Chicago
     Mercantile Exchange). The penultimate column contains the expiry schedule for each commodity market. The last column
     reports the contract size.

       Sector   Commodity             Ticker    Exchange    Expiry Month                           Contract Size
                WTI Crude Oil         CL        NYMEX       Jan-Dec                                1,000 Barrels
                Heating Oil           HO        NYMEX       Jan-Dec                                42,000 Gallons
       Energy Natural Gas             NG        NYMEX       Jan-Dec                                10,000 Million Btu
                Gasoil                QS        NYMEX       Jan-Dec                                100 Tonnes
                Gasoline              HU/XB     NYMEX       Jan-Dec                                42,000 Gallons
                Corn                  C         CBOT        Mar,May,Jul,Sep,Dec                    5,000 Bushels
       Grains   Oats                  O         CBOT        Mar,May,Jul,Sep,Dec                    5,000 Bushels
38              Rough Rice            RR        CBOT        Jan,Mar,May,Jul,Sep,Nov                2,000 Hundredweights
                Wheat (Chicago)       W         CBOT        Mar,May,Jul,Sep,Dec                    5,000 Bushels
                Copper                HG        COMEX       Mar,May,Jul,Sep,Dec                    25,000 Pounds
                Gold                  GC        COMEX       Feb,Apr,Jun,Aug,Oct,Dec                100 Troy Ounces
       Metals   Palladium             PA        NYMEX       Mar,Jun,Sep,Dec                        100 Troy Ounces
                Platinum              PL        NYMEX       Jan, Apr, Jul, Oct                     50 Troy Ounces
                Silver                SI        COMEX       Mar,May,Jul,Sep,Dec                    5,000 Troy Ounces
                Feeder Cattle         FC        CME         Jan,Mar,Apr,May,Aug,Sep,Oct,Nov        50,000 Pounds
      Livestock Lean Hogs             LH        CME         Feb,Apr,May,Jun,Jul,Aug,Oct,Dec        40,000 Pounds
                Live Cattle           LC        CME         Feb,Apr,Jun,Aug,Oct,Dec                40,000 Pounds
                Canola                RS        ICE         Jan,Mar,May,Jul,Nov                    20 Metric Tonnes
      Oilseeds Soybeans               S         CBOT        Jan,Mar,May,Jul,Aug,Sep,Nov            5,000 Bushels
                Soybean Meal          SM        CBOT        Jan,Mar,May,Jul,Aug,Sep,Oct,Dec        100 Short Tons
                Soybean Oil           BO        CBOT        Jan,Mar,May,Jul,Aug,Sep,Oct,Dec        60,000 Pounds
                Cotton                CT        ICE         Mar,May,Jul,Oct,Dec                    50,000 Pounds
                Lumber                LB        CME         Jan,Mar,May,Jul,Sep,Nov                110,000 Feet
        Softs   Cocoa                 CC        ICE         Mar,May,Jul,Sep,Dec                    10 Metric Tonnes
                Coffee                KC        ICE         Mar,May,Jul,Sep,Dec                    37,500 Pounds
                Orange Juice          JO        ICE         Jan,Mar,May,Jul,Sep,Nov                15,000 Pounds
                Sugar                 SB        ICE         Mar,May,Jul,Oct                        112,000 Pounds
                  Table A.2: Summary Statistics for First Nearby Returns

This table reports summary statistics for the monthly returns of the first nearby futures of the
27 commodities in our sample. The commodities are grouped in 6 sectors: Energy, Grains,
Livestock, Metals, Oilseeds, and Softs. We report the mean (Mean), standard deviation (Std.
Dev.), first order autocorrelation coefficient (AR(1)), skewness (Skew), kurtosis (Kurt), and
the number of observations (Obs). The mean and standard deviation are annualized and in
percentage points. The sample period is from July 1959 to December 2018.

 Sector        Commodity       Mean     Std. Dev.    AR(1)       Skew       Kurt        Obs.
               WTI Crude       6.87       32.62       0.19       0.34        5.61       430
               Heating Oil      8.93      30.81       0.11       0.42        4.45       390

   Energy
               Natural Gas     -7.78      47.83       0.08       0.59        4.45       345
               Gasoil           9.43      30.60       0.19       0.29        4.89       354
               Gasoline        14.26      32.10       0.16       0.40        5.52       385
               Corn            -2.13      23.68        0.00       1.20      9.71        714

   Grains
               Oats            -0.43      29.01       -0.03       2.22      23.22       712
               Rough Rice      -7.25      25.33        0.01       0.94      7.93        360
               Chicago Wheat   -1.61      25.13        0.05       0.78      6.84        714


   Livestock
               Feeder Cattle   3.35       16.49       -0.02      -0.37       5.32       565
               Live Cattle      4.71      16.17       -0.01      -0.19       5.17       649
               Lean Hogs       -2.97      23.64       -0.04      -0.18       3.42       393
               Copper          7.42       24.96       0.07       -0.00       5.66       361
               Gold            1.25       18.97       -0.00       0.49       6.35       528

   Metals
               Palladium       12.12      31.24       -0.01       0.37       6.41       393
               Platinum        4.12       21.68        0.01      -0.02       6.77       393
               Silver          2.34       31.59       0.05       0.58        8.65       528
               Soybean Oil     5.40       28.38       -0.03      1.25        9.20       714

   Oilseeds
               Canola          -0.78      19.52       -0.00      0.02       5.47        444
               Soybeans         5.18      25.47        0.03      1.45       13.21       712
               Soybean Meal     9.34      28.97        0.05      1.96       18.37       714
               Cotton           2.12      23.46       0.06       0.62       6.17        712
               Lumber          -5.35      27.22       0.06       0.11       3.49        393
               Cocoa            3.03      30.44       0.00       0.65       4.30        712
   Softs       Orange Juice     4.92      32.45       -0.04      1.59       11.18       623
               Coffee           4.29      36.41       -0.01      1.21       6.71        557
               Sugar            4.76      41.66       0.17       1.17       6.65        696


                                              39
40
                                            Table A.3: Seasonality in the Convenience Yield

     This table reports the average convenience yield for each calendar month (columns “Jan” to “Dec”). The last two columns show
     the R2 and the p-value from an F-test of the hypothesis that the slope estimates in a regression of monthly convenience yield on
     twelve monthly dummies are jointly equal to zero. The sample period spans from July 1959 to December 2018. The commodities
     are grouped in 6 sectors: Energy, Grains, Livestock, Metals, Oilseeds, and Softs.

      Sector/Commodity    Jan      Feb      Mar      Apr      May       Jun       Jul      Aug      Sep      Oct     Nov      Dec      R2     F-stat
          WTI Crude       -1.96    1.34     0.16     0.81     1.07      -0.20     1.17     3.12     -0.84    0.65    6.89     0.32     0.01    0.990
          Heating Oil     -29.64   -27.28   -7.54    3.99     13.39     16.43     17.96    14.66    13.69    12.00   1.49     -39.44   0.15    0.000
          Natural Gas     -67.90   -81.34   14.92    19.06    16.89     10.52     21.40    53.12    58.52    34.58   -48.82   -84.49   0.08    0.004
      Energy
          Gasoil          -11.82   -7.24    0.46     3.18     11.05     10.26     11.50    3.54     0.08     1.46    -4.02    -17.66   0.10    0.000
          Gasoline        51.28    4.39     -6.82    -15.39   -24.30    -17.07    -86.23   -39.18   -16.79   -9.26   9.02     14.73    0.41    0.000
          Corn            17.02    14.25    13.78    -5.77    -6.86     4.73      6.15     18.49    18.97    18.36   17.37    17.90    0.17    0.000
          Oats            4.47     -4.86    -1.88    4.66     2.56      16.46     17.53    17.03    15.30    14.96   8.15     5.88     0.09    0.000
          Rough Rice
      Grains              16.83    15.32    16.53    -16.60   -6.68     11.04     13.26    16.95    18.27    17.27   17.64    15.68    0.21    0.000
          Chicago Wheat   1.38     -11.71   -11.78   15.74    16.88     18.43     18.66    15.02    15.07    13.96   1.39     1.69     0.16    0.000
          Feeder Cattle   7.11     3.01     8.60     1.45     -0.79     -1.00     3.12     10.36    6.36     -0.04   0.89     5.51     0.07    0.000
41
          Live Cattle     -9.89    -11.74   -4.48    -3.83    5.26      5.95      10.06    9.83     6.40     6.65    8.21     10.39    0.13    0.000
          Lean Hogs       56.22    60.11    -0.86    -13.04   -102.15   -102.05   -19.32   -10.49   19.02    28.57   7.17     12.99    0.63    0.000
      Livestock

          Copper          0.29     -0.20    0.14     0.23     0.44      0.25      0.98     -0.44    1.14     1.95    0.47     -1.21    0.01    0.998
          Gold            9.97     10.11    9.83     9.66     10.19     10.06     10.24    9.99     10.17    9.59    9.94     9.78     0.00    1.000
          Palladium       3.18     3.99     4.50     2.78     4.80      3.80      3.79     4.41     4.27     4.55    4.67     3.65     0.01    0.989
      Metals
          Platinum        3.62     3.88     4.23     3.86     4.02      4.48      4.11     4.17     4.90     4.23    4.10     4.95     0.01    0.999
          Silver          10.19    10.33    10.53    10.34    10.51     10.59     10.52    10.68    11.24    10.35   10.39    10.16    0.00    1.000
          Soybean Oil     7.99     7.05     6.11     -1.00    0.39      0.72      -8.34    4.34     8.97     4.72    7.25     8.47     0.05    0.000
          Canola          8.04     11.03    11.26    4.32     5.87      13.64     13.64    13.92    14.09    13.17   12.85    7.95     0.10    0.000
          Soybeans
      Oilseeds            10.63    9.20     9.15     -8.56    -9.00     -50.92    -0.41    12.64    13.72    12.33   11.76    11.10    0.19    0.000
          Soybean Meal    6.62     9.36     9.77     -1.51    -5.44     -29.32    -23.99   4.24     9.24     3.48    5.79     6.40     0.15    0.000
          Cotton          12.30    7.23     8.29     -17.97   -26.86    2.35      6.23     8.17     12.14    11.23   11.23    11.37    0.04    0.004
          Lumber          9.84     6.86     10.83    4.34     5.11      -10.66    -3.51    15.41    24.95    18.56   18.63    8.92     0.17    0.000
          Cocoa           6.59     8.39     6.17     8.70     8.24      7.18      8.08     8.92     7.57     7.24    7.65     7.02     0.00    1.000
      Softs
          Orange Juice    12.66    9.36     7.72     8.45     7.75      0.74      -0.49    -3.92    -8.67    10.82   12.34    13.97    0.05    0.001
          Coffee          9.76     8.52     7.85     7.70     7.93      5.30      5.52     6.82     7.00     4.60    8.32     7.93     0.00    0.997
          Sugar           2.72     0.81     0.15     7.63     6.82      11.87     11.94    14.47    6.29     4.75    4.04     5.50     0.03    0.033
42
         Table A.4: Summary Statistics for the Volatility of the Convenience Yield

This table reports the summary statistics of the monthly time series of the volatility of the
nearest convenience yield, σt (y (1,2) ), i.e., the one computed from the prices of the first and
second nearby futures contracts (see Equation (3)). The dataset contains 27 commodities
divided into 6 sectors: Energy, Grains, Livestock, Metals, Oilseeds, and Softs. We report for
each commodity the mean (Mean), standard deviation (Std. Dev.), first order autocorrelation
coefficient (AR(1)), skewness (Skew), kurtosis (Kurt), and number of observations (Obs.).
The sample period is from July 1959 to December 2018.

 Sector       Commodity        Mean     Std. Dev.     AR(1)       Skew       Kurt       Obs.
              WTI Crude        4.73        4.22        0.55       2.51       11.63       430
              Heating Oil       4.08       4.49        0.51       3.93       27.08       390

 Energy
              Natural Gas      10.65      12.01        0.46       3.04       16.59       345
              Gasoil           3.60        3.26        0.65       2.83       14.46       354
              Gasoline          6.12       4.89        0.32       2.36       10.86       385
              Corn             1.76        1.99        0.48       5.64       51.51       714

 Grains
              Oats             3.56        2.83        0.41       2.61       13.34       714
              Rough Rice       2.50        3.16        0.48       3.75       20.58       360
              Chicago Wheat    2.10        1.95        0.43       2.90       14.52       714


 Livestock
              Feeder Cattle    3.61        2.56        0.45       2.07        8.81       563
              Live Cattle      3.47        1.95        0.37       1.61       6.42        649
              Lean Hogs        6.72        4.32        0.32       2.66       13.77       392
              Copper           1.23        1.43        0.70        2.52     10.75        361
              Gold             0.39        1.37        0.16       10.25     128.25       528

 Metals
              Palladium        0.70        1.23        0.42       7.35       84.17       381
              Platinum         0.62        0.75        0.70       2.50       10.06       393
              Silver           0.35        0.63        0.31        7.30     73.69        528
              Soybean Oil      2.50        3.11        0.63       3.65       21.62       714

 Oilseeds
              Canola           1.40        0.93        0.32       2.82       15.45       442
              Soybeans         2.09        3.38        0.48       6.26       58.98       714
              Soybean Meal     3.90        5.71        0.49       7.70       91.12       714
              Cotton           2.61        2.29        0.43       2.65       12.87       712
              Lumber           5.11        3.18        0.40       1.98       9.52        390
              Cocoa            1.92        1.74        0.46       3.18       18.63       714
 Softs        Orange Juice     2.98        2.22        0.35       2.95       16.41       623
              Coffee           2.52        3.12        0.64       3.88       25.68       557
              Sugar            3.87        2.99        0.37       3.17       21.82       696
                                               43
            Table A.5: Volatility of Convenience Yield across the Term Structure

This table reports the average values of the monthly volatility estimates of the nearest four
convenience yields, i.e., y (1,2) , y (2,3) , y (3,4) , and y (4,5) , respectively (see also Equation (3)).
Our sample includes 27 commodities spanning 6 sectors: Energy, Grains, Livestock, Metals,
Oilseeds, and Softs. The sample period is from July 1959 to December 2018. Nearby series
with more than 50% missing values are left blank.

 Sector         Commodity          σ(y (1,2) )        σ(y (2,3) )        σ(y (3,4) )        σ(y (4,5) )
                WTI Crude            4.17                 2.47              1.80               1.55
                Heating Oil           3.98                2.70              2.05               1.64

    Energy
                Natural Gas          12.01               10.29              9.94               4.99
                Gasoil               3.04                 2.43              2.05               2.44
                Gasoline              4.80                3.12              2.27               2.18
                Corn                 2.16                1.21               1.20               1.70

    Grains
                Oats                 3.23                3.09               5.60               6.44
                Rough Rice           3.21                3.08               3.13               4.94
                Chicago Wheat        1.80                2.39               2.38               2.16


    Livestock
                Feeder Cattle        1.84                1.51               1.49               1.14
                Live Cattle          1.60                1.08               0.89               0.85
                Lean Hogs            4.46                3.38               3.29               2.93
                Copper               1.14                0.79               0.69               0.67
                Gold                 0.11                0.09               0.10               0.10

    Metals
                Palladium            1.14                0.61               0.56
                Platinum             0.69                0.67               0.62
                Silver               0.29                0.31               0.20               0.17
                Soybean Oil          1.87                1.74               1.21               1.45

    Oilseeds
                Canola               1.00                0.83               0.99               1.30
                Soybeans             2.53                2.27               2.21               1.75
                Soybean Meal         4.24                2.75               3.13               2.61
                Cotton               2.31                1.87               1.68               2.14
                Lumber               3.20                2.44               5.99               4.10
                Cocoa                0.91                0.66               0.54               0.52
    Softs       Orange Juice         1.97                1.48               1.14               1.36
                Coffee               2.65                1.39               1.00               1.15
                Sugar                2.22                1.76               1.27               1.06




                                                    44
             Table A.6: Summary Statistics for Commodity Strategies

This table reports summary statistics for the monthly returns of commodity strategies that
are formed based on the following signals: equally-weighted commodity market return, fu-
tures basis, momentum, basis-momentum, idiosyncratic volatility, total volatility, skewness,
relative basis, speculative pressure, and hedging pressure. At the end of each month, we sort
all commodities based on the value of each signal. We then buy (sell), in equal weight, the
commodities with a higher (lower) than median signal. We hold the positions for 1 month
and compute the High-Low portfolio return. The sample period is from July 1959 to Decem-
ber 2018. We report the mean (Mean) and the corresponding Newey and West (1987) t-stat.
in parenthesis (using 6 lags), standard deviation (Std. Dev.), Sharpe ratio (SR), skewness
(Skew), and kurtosis (Kurt) for each strategy. The mean and standard deviation are annu-
alized and reported in percentage points.

 Commodity                     Mean        Std. Dev.      SR          Skew         Kurt
 Market                     3.93 (1.97)      13.28       0.30          0.61        8.25
 Basis                      7.20 (3.66)      14.20       0.51         -0.04        4.27
 Momentum                   9.89 (4.46)      15.57       0.64          0.14        4.70
 Basis-Momentum             14.74 (6.65)     14.61       1.01          0.25        6.29
 Idiosyncratic Volatility   7.65 (3.69)      15.29       0.50         -0.03        4.53
 Total Volatility           2.42 (1.09)      17.65       0.14          1.14        17.11
 Skewness                   8.05 (4.03)      14.29       0.56          0.48        5.59
 Relative Basis             4.37 (2.49)      13.66       0.32         -0.25        5.45
 Speculative Pressure       2.99 (1.32)      11.86       0.25          0.44        4.97
 Hedging Pressure           4.47 (1.88)      12.43       0.36          0.12        3.51




                                              45
            Table A.7: Alternative Portfolio Construction Approaches

This table reports the returns on long-short portfolios sorted by the CYR signal. The second
column focuses on the top and bottom tertiles to construct the long-short CYR portfolio.
The third column employs rank-based weights for the commodities in each portfolio. The last
column focuses on a 1-month lag between the formation of the portfolio and the investment.
The sample consists of 27 commodities covering the period from July 1959 to December
2018. We report annualized monthly returns (in percentage points), t-statistics based on
Newey and West (1987) standard errors (computed using a bandwidth of 6) in parentheses,
and annualized Sharpe ratios.

                              Tertiles           Rank-Weighting          Decision Delay
 Av. Return                     8.47                   8.10                   7.30
 (t-stat)                      (2.91)                 (3.02)                 (2.68)
 Sharpe Ratio                   0.44                   0.44                   0.50




                                            46
                            Table A.8: Volatility Regimes

This table analyzes the performance of the CYR strategy over different volatility regimes.
For each trading day, we compute the commodity index return as the equal-weighted average
of all commodity returns. We then compute the monthly volatility using the daily commodity
index returns observed during the month. By following these steps, we obtain a monthly
time-series of commodity index return volatility. We then use the median of the time-series
of monthly volatility to identify the high and low volatility regimes. For each of these two
regimes, we calculate the average return (Mean) and associated t-statistics using Newey and
West (1987) standard errors (with 6 lags), standard deviation (Std. Dev.), and Sharpe ratio
(SR) of the CYR strategy. The mean and standard deviation are annualized and expressed
in percentage points. The sample period is from July 1959 to December 2018.

 Regime                                                         Mean       Std. Dev.   SR
 High Volatility                                             9.46 (2.93)     16.50     0.57
 Low Volatility                                              4.41 (1.65)     13.85     0.32




                                            47
                    Table A.9: Robustness to Different Samples

This table reports the returns on long-short portfolios formed by sorting on the main conve-
nience yield risk (CYR) measure and excluding all commodities in a specific sector [name in
row]. We report annualized monthly returns (in percentage points), and t-statistics based on
Newey and West (1987) standard errors (computed using a bandwidth of 6).

                                                                                  CYR
 Energy                                                                         7.61 (3.17)
 Grains                                                                         6.13 (2.03)
 Live Stock                                                                     8.77 (3.03)
 Metals                                                                         8.06 (2.90)
 Oilseeds                                                                       7.42 (2.67)
 Softs                                                                          8.92 (3.51)




                                            48
                    Table A.10: Alternative Formation Periods

This table summarizes the performance of the CYR strategy where the CYR signal is com-
puted using different formation windows. We separately consider the formation periods:
1-Month, 6-Month, 12-Month, and 18-Month. The sample consists of 27 commodities cov-
ering the period from July 1959 to December 2018. We report annualized average returns
and t-statistics for Newey and West (1987) (computed using a bandwidth of 6) in parenthe-
ses. The average return is expressed in percentage point. The last row shows the annualized
Sharpe ratio.

 Formation Period       1-Month           6-Month          12-Month          18-Month
 Av. Return               4.29              5.38              6.93              6.28
 (t-stat)                (2.45)            (2.63)            (3.40)            (2.93)
 Sharpe Ratio             0.31              0.37              0.46              0.40




                                            49
                              Table A.11:
Performance of the Convenience Yield Risk Strategy:                    Spreading Returns

This table reports the average CYR spreading return with the associated t-statistic (in paren-
theses) using Newey and West (1987) standard errors (computed using a bandwidth of 6),
and the annualized Sharpe ratio for portfolios sorted on convenience yield risk. We sort the
27 commodities by their CYR at the end of each month and form a “High” portfolio con-
taining the commodities associated with a CYR greater than the median CYR and a “Low”
portfolio containing the remaining commodities. We also report the average spreading return
on the “High-Low” spread portfolio. The commodities in each portfolio are equally-weighted.
The sample period is from July 1959 to December 2018.

                          High                      Low                    High–Low
 Av. Return               -0.31                     -1.12                     0.81
 (t-stat)                (-0.80)                   (-3.94)                   (1.99)
 Sharpe Ratio             -0.13                     -0.61                     0.30




                                             50
                                       Table A.12: Spanning Regressions: Spreading Returns

     This table reports the results from spanning regressions of the CYR spreading returns on the spreading returns of an equally-
     weighted commodity market portfolio (MRKT), and the spreading returns of the strategies based on the basis (BAS), momentum
     (MOM), basis-momentum (BASMOM), idiosyncratic volatility (IVOL), total volatility (TVOL), skewness (SKEW), relative
     basis (RELBAS), speculative pressure (SP), and hedging pressure (HP), respectively. The commodity sample period starts in
     July 1959 and ends in December 2018. The spreading returns are annualized and expressed in percentage points. t-statistics
     using Newey and West (1987) standard errors (based on a bandwidth of 6) are reported in parentheses below the estimated
     coefficients.

      Variable       (1)        (2)         (3)     (4)       (5)      (6)         (7)       (8)      (9)       (10)       (11)
      α             1.03       0.79        0.82     0.68     0.81      0.69       0.95      0.54      0.07      0.07       0.84
                   (2.73)     (1.97)      (2.00)   (1.67)   (2.00)    (1.76)     (2.38)    (1.41)    (0.17)    (0.16)    (2.20)
      MRKT          0.03                                                                                                   0.04
                   (2.72)                                                                                                (2.61)
      BAS                      0.01                                                                                       -0.00
51                            (0.37)                                                                                     (-0.61)
      MOM                                 -0.01                                                                           -0.01
                                         (-0.29)                                                                         (-1.61)
      BASMOM                                        0.01                                                                   0.01
                                                   (0.71)                                                                (0.70)
      IVOL                                                   0.01                                                          0.01
                                                            (1.39)                                                       (0.97)
      TVOL                                                             0.01                                                0.01
                                                                      (1.20)                                             (1.58)
      SKEW                                                                        0.01                                    -0.00
                                                                                 (2.48)                                  (-0.29)
      RELBAS                                                                                0.01                           0.01
                                                                                           (3.31)                        (0.53)
      SP                                                                                              0.02
                                                                                                     (1.46)
      HP                                                                                                        0.01
                                                                                                               (1.18)
      R2            0.01       0.01       0.00     0.00      0.01      0.01       0.02      0.03      0.01      0.01      0.07
      Obs           713        713        713      713       713       713        713       713       395       395       713
               Table A.13: Summary Statistics for Transaction Costs
This table reports the summary statistics of the daily transaction cost estimates based on the
modeling approach of Szakmary et al. (2010).

                                     (i)   10 + T ick size(i) × CM(i)
                               T Ct =                 (i)
                                                                                          (20)
                                                  Ft × CM(i)
              (i)
where T C t is the transaction cost estimate of market i at time t. The transaction cost
estimates are expressed in percentage points. T ick size(i) is the minimum tick size for com-
                                                                    (i)
modity i. CM (i) is the contract multiplier for commodity i. Ft is the price of the first
nearby futures contract of commodity i at time t. We report for each commodity the mean
(Mean), standard deviation (Std. Dev.), skewness (Skew), kurtosis (Kurt), and number of
observations (Obs.). The sample period is from July 1959 to December 2018.

  Sector      Commodity       Mean           St. Dev        Skew        Kurt       Obs.
              WTI Crude       0.07             0.04         0.40        2.30       430
              Heating Oil     0.03             0.02         0.30        1.85       390

  Energy
              Natural Gas     0.07             0.03         0.67        3.01       345
              Gasoil          0.24             0.15         0.48        2.16       354
              Gasoline        0.03             0.02         0.30        1.81       385
              Corn            0.09             0.04         0.78        2.49       714

  Grains
              Oats            0.16             0.08         0.78        2.38       712
              Rough Rice      0.12             0.05         1.21        4.44       360
              Chicago Wheat   0.07             0.03         1.03        3.29       714


  Livestock
              Feeder Cattle   0.03             0.01         1.35        5.27       565
              Live Cattle     0.04             0.02         1.29        3.74       649
              Lean Hogs       0.04             0.01         0.34        2.58       393
              Copper          0.03             0.02          0.31       1.76       361
              Gold            0.05             0.03          1.46       5.91       528

  Metals
              Palladium       0.09             0.06          0.68       2.40       393
              Platinum        0.05             0.02          0.14       1.55       393
              Silver          0.10             0.05         -0.10       1.64       528
              Soybean Oil     0.09             0.05         1.07        3.11       714

  Oilseeds
              Canola          0.16             0.04         0.26        2.30       444
              Soybeans        0.04             0.02         1.07        3.02       712
              Soybean Meal    0.14             0.09         1.23        3.40       714
              Cotton          0.04             0.02         1.12        3.31       712
              Lumber          0.07             0.02         0.60        2.54       393
              Cocoa           0.18             0.12         1.50        5.18       712
  Softs       Orange Juice    0.07             0.04         1.39        4.42       623
              Coffee          0.03             0.01         1.09        3.59       557
              Sugar           0.13             0.11         2.11        7.45       696
              Eq. Weighted    0.10             0.06         1.07        2.90       714




                                                      52
                   Table A.14: Accounting for Transaction Costs

This table analyzes the impact of transaction costs on the performance of the CYR strategy.
The column “Raw” focuses on the gross strategy returns. The Columns “T C 1 ” and “T C 2 ”
focus on the performance of the CYR strategy net of fees modeled as in Equation (8) and
(9), respectively. We report the annualized average returns in percentage points. The figures
in parentheses indicate the Newey and West (1987) t-statistic computed using a window of 6.
The last row shows the annualized Sharpe ratio after accounting for transaction costs. The
sample period is from July 1959 to December 2018.

                          Raw                       T C1                     T C2
 Av. Return               6.94                      6.88                      6.71
 (t-stat)                (3.36)                    (3.34)                    (3.25)
 Sharpe Ratio             0.46                      0.46                      0.45




                                             53
