                                                                                ISSN 0956-8549




Relative Basis and the Expected Returns
         of Commodity Futures


                                             By


                                     Ming Gu
                                    Wenjin Kang
                                     Dong Lou
                                     Ke Tang




                 FINANCIAL MARKETS GROUP DISCUSSION PAPER NO. 942




                                      November 2025




Any opinions expressed here are those of the authors and not necessarily those of the FMG. The
research findings reported in this paper are the result of the independent research of the
authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the LSE.
               Relative Basis and the Expected Returns of
                         Commodity Futures *




                 Ming Gu†         Wenjin Kang‡         Dong Lou§         Ke TangΨ


                                      This Draft: July 2024




† School of Economics, Xiamen University, guming@xmu.edu.cn.
‡ Department of Financeand Business Economics, Faculty of Business Administration, University of
Macau, wenjinkang@um.edu.mo.
§
   Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, London School of Economics, and CEPR,
dlou@ust.hk, d.lou@lse.ac.uk.
Ψ Institute of Economics, Tsinghua University, ketang@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn.

*
  We thank Gurdip Bakshi, Xiaohui Gao Bakshi, Martijn Boons, John Fan, Yufeng Han, Ralph Koijen,
Hong Miao, Maximilian Nagl, Neil Pearson, Christopher Polk, Michel Robe, Geert Rouwenhorst, Marta
Szymanowska, Stefan Trueck, Robert Webb, Wei Xiong for their helpful comments. We are also grateful
for the comments and suggestions from conference participants at the American Finance Association
Annual Meeting, China International Finance Conference, JPMCC International Commodities
Symposium, Australasian Finance and Banking Conference, Greater China Area Finance Conference,
International Conference on Futures and Other Derivatives, and Midwest Finance Association Annual
Meeting, as well as seminar participants at Fudan University, Griffith University, London School of
Economics, Macquarie University, Sun Yat-Sen University, Tsinghua University, University of Macau,
and Zhejiang University. This paper was previously circulated under the title “Relative Basis: A Better
Measure of the Convenience Yield.”
             Relative Basis and the Expected Returns of
                       Commodity Futures




                                         Abstract

We propose a novel measure, dubbed “relative basis,” to better capture the commodity
convenience yield. Our measure is the difference between the traditional near-term basis
and a similarly defined distant basis. This simple differencing purges out persistent
commodity characteristics in traditional basis, such as storage and financing costs.
Relative basis is closely tied to changes in physical inventories and dominates traditional
basis in forecasting commodity futures returns. In contrast, relative basis does not
forecast the returns of financial futures, which are not subject to inventory constraints.
Our results provide new insights into the well-known relation between basis and
expected futures returns.


Keywords: commodity markets, futures basis, convenience yield, commodity futures
           returns, theory of storage.
1. Introduction

Commodity futures markets are of great and increasing importance not only to
commodity consumers and producers, exporting and importing nations, but also to
global investors who view commodities as an integral part of their portfolios (Gorton
and Rouwenhorst, 2006; Tang and Xiong, 2012; Ready, Roussanov, and Ward, 2017).
As a result, the price dynamics of commodity futures have in recent decades attracted
significant attention from policymakers, practitioners, as well as academics.

     A unique feature of commodities is that, unlike stocks and bonds whose value is
determined by discounted future cash flows, the value of a commodity is driven by the
balance of demand and supply in the real economy. As stipulated by the Theory of
Storage of commodity prices, temporary shifts in demand and supply are often reflected
in the commodity’s convenience yield, an implicit but important benefit to the physical
commodity owners who can use the commodity for immediate production and
consumption. 1 Specifically, the Theory of Storage predicts that when a commodity is in
short supply, there is a large benefit for holding the physical commodity, therefore a
relatively high convenience yield. Further, the marginal convenience yield on inventory
falls at a decreasing rate as inventories increase, so there is a negative, convex relation
between convenience yields and inventories.

     The extant literature uses a commodity’s futures basis to proxy for its convenience
yield (e.g., Fama and French, 1987, 1988; Szymanowska et al., 2014; Bakshi, Gao, and
Rossi, 2019). The classic textbook formula postulates that a commodity’s futures basis
equals its (marginal) convenience yield minus the (marginal) cost of storage and
foregone interest. However, due to the lack of detailed and timely information on
commodities’ storage and, to some extent, financing costs, futures basis – as a proxy for


1
  The Theory of Storage is initially proposed by Kaldor (1939), Working (1949), and Brennan (1958).
More recent studies in this literature include Wright and Williams (1982), Scheinkman and Schechtman
(1983), Gibson and Schwartz (1990), Brennan (1991), Deaton and Laroque (1992, 1996), Ng and Pirrong
(1994), Routledge, Seppi, and Spatt (2000), Geman and Nguyen (2005), Dewally, Ederington, and
Fernando (2013), Gorton, Hayashi, and Rouwenhorst (2013), Basak and Pavlova (2016), among others.


                                                 1
the convenience yield – is confounded by these cost factors, which can be large in
magnitude and slow-moving in nature.

    We start our analysis by proposing a simple yet effective method – without relying
on additional data – to isolate shocks to the convenience yield from the confounding
factors in commodity futures basis. Specifically, we exploit the fact that commodity-
specific characteristics – such as storage and financing costs – are far more persistent
than physical inventories and convenience yields. For instance, the storage cost of
natural gas is persistently higher than that of gold due to differences in storage
technology; similarly, because gold can be used as collateral, its financing cost is
persistently lower than that of natural gas. Shocks to inventories, on the other hand, are
often transitory. This is because the demand and supply of a commodity can adjust
quickly (although not instantaneously) to absorb inventory fluctuations. For example, a
positive demand shock to natural gas due to unexpectedly cold weather pushes up the
natural gas price in the near term; the price hike then induces higher supply (lower
demand) by natural gas producers (consumers) in the following weeks and months,
which then alleviates the temporary demand-supply imbalance and restores the price.

    To isolate the transient component of commodity futures basis, which mainly
reflects the convenience yield, we take the difference between the near-term traditional
basis and a similarly defined distant basis. Specifically, our measure – dubbed “relative
basis” – is the time-scaled price difference between the first-nearby (𝐹𝐹𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇1)) and second-
nearby futures contracts (𝐹𝐹𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇2)) minus that between the second-nearby (𝐹𝐹𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇2)) and
third-nearby futures contracts (𝐹𝐹𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇3)). (We discuss in detail the economic motivation
for the construction of relative basis in Section 3.1.) This simple differencing exercise
allows us to purge out the difficult-to-observe and relatively persistent components of
traditional basis. In contrast to our relative basis measure that captures the transient
component of traditional basis, we also label the residual part of traditional basis, after
orthogonalizing with respect to relative basis, as “residual basis,” which reflects the
persistent component of traditional basis.



                                              2
    Our relative basis measure has several notable properties. First, relative basis is
much less persistent than traditional basis. For example, the AR(1) coefficient of
traditional basis at the monthly horizon is nearly 0.7, whereas that of relative basis is
0.34; the second to sixth autocorrelation coefficients of traditional basis range from 0.3
to 0.5, while those of relative basis are all statistically zero. In other words, a simple
differencing exercise indeed eliminates most of the persistent components in traditional
basis. 2 Second, relative basis is more closely linked to physical inventories, particularly
inventory decreases (consistent with the convex relation between convenience yields and
inventories), than traditional and residual basis. Put differently, purging out the
persistent components of traditional basis sharpens our measure of the convenience yield.

    With these results in hand, we then turn to the relation between relative basis and
expected returns of commodity futures. One of the most intriguing findings in prior
literature is that commodity futures with a positive basis (i.e., those with a downward-
sloping futures curve) earn significantly higher average returns than commodity futures
with a negative basis (e.g., Fama and French, 1987; 1988). 3 We show that traditional
basis loses its return predictability once we control for relative basis, along with other
known commodity characteristics, such as price momentum of Asness, Moskowitz, and
Pedersen (2013) and basis momentum of Boons and Prado (2019). For example, in
calendar-time portfolio sorts, the monthly return spread of commodity futures ranked
by traditional basis is a statistically insignificant -2 bps (t-statistic = -0.12) after
controlling for relative basis and other common factors. In contrast, the return spread of
commodity futures sorted by relative basis is a highly statistically significant 63 bps (t-
statistic = 3.35) per month after controlling for traditional basis and the same set of
common factors.
2
  In untabulated results, we decompose the traditional basis measure into a fast-moving and a slow-
moving component using the HP filter. The fast-moving component from this statistical approach is
strongly correlated with relative basis. The reason that we adopt a simple-differencing approach is for the
ease of implementation and interpretation. Our method does not rely on strong statistical assumptions
(all we require is that the convenience yield is less persistent than other commodity characteristics) and
has an intuitive economic interpretation.
3
 Other studies include for example, Bailey and Chan (1993), Yang (2013), Szymanowska et al. (2014),
Miffre (2016), Bakshi, Gao, and Rossi (2019), and Bhardwaj, Janardanan, and Rouwenhorst (2019).


                                                    3
       There are at least two possible explanations for the strong association between
relative basis and expected commodity futures returns. First, Gorton, Hayashi, and
Rouwenhorst (2013) argue (and provide consistent evidence) that inventory levels are
negatively related to the expected returns of commodity futures, possibly because
inventories help absorb/cushion temporary fluctuations in demand and supply, so
commodities with low inventories have riskier returns. (Note that comprehensive
inventory data are difficult to come by for many commodities and, for those publicly
available, are released with significant delays. 4) To the extent that convenience yields
arise from low inventories, the former should also forecast commodity futures returns.
An alternative view, drawing on the theory of normal backwardation (Keynes, 1930;
Hicks, 1939), argues that commodity basis is driven by the net hedging demand of
commodity consumers and producers (so having little to do with inventory constraints
in the spot market). Consequently, the ability of commodity basis to forecast
commodity futures returns reflects the risk premium earned by hedging insurance
providers who take the opposite side of the net hedging demand. 5

       We conduct an array of tests to shed more light on these two competing
explanations. First, the inventory-based interpretation of return predictability should
only apply to commodity futures and not to financial futures (e.g., equity index futures,
currency futures, and interest rate futures), whereas the hedging-risk-premium based
explanation applies to both. This is because financial instruments are not subject to
physical inventory constraints, as investors can easily create additional supply through
short selling. Consistent with the inventory-based view, and in sharp contrast to what
we observe for commodity futures, relative basis does not forecast financial futures
returns. Interestingly, traditional basis (as well as residual basis) strongly forecasts
financial futures returns. In other words, it is the slow-moving component of traditional



4
    See Gorton, Hayashi, and Rouwenhorst (2013) for a detailed discussion of inventory data.
5
 For this line of argument, see, for example, Hong and Yogo (2012), Jia and Kang (2022), and Ooi,
Maloney, and Brixton (2022).


                                                      4
basis – related to, for instance, the interest rate differentials – that predicts financial
futures returns.

    Second, given the convex relation between convenience yields and inventories (as
predicted by the Theory of Storage and illustrated in Figure 1), there is much more
variation in convenience yields when inventories are low. If the return predictability of
relative basis operates through convenience yields, the effect should be stronger when
relative basis is positive than when it is negative (the former is associated with
relatively low levels of inventories and thus high importance of convenience yields). This
is precisely what we observe in the data. The coefficient on relative basis in our return-
forecasting regression is more than three times larger when relative basis is positive than
when it is negative. Following a similar logic, we also find that the return predictability
of relative basis is stronger in economic expansions than in economic contractions, as
expansionary periods are usually associated with higher demand for (thus lower
inventories of) physical commodities. Finally, our relative basis measure is statistically
unrelated to smoothed-hedging-pressure introduced in Kang, Rouwenhorst, and Tang
(2020), which represents the net hedging demand from commercial hedgers after
controlling for the short-term liquidity effect. When both are included in the regression
to forecast commodity futures returns, relative basis retains its predictive power.

    Taken together, our set of empirical findings supports the view that the return
predictability of relative basis arises from its relation with the convenience yield of a
commodity, as advocated by the Theory of Storage. These findings are less consistent
with the alternative view that our documented return predictability reflects imbalances
in hedging demand, thus the risk premium earned by insurance providers. In other
words, by purging out the confounding factors in traditional basis, we provide novel
evidence that the return predictability of futures basis – an important result in the
commodity futures literature – is at least partly driven by its relation to convenience
yields. As such, our results call for a new theory of commodity futures that naturally
ties together convenience yields and expected commodity futures returns.



                                             5
Related Literature

Our paper contributes to the vast literature on commodity convenience yields by
introducing a simple yet effective method to estimate the convenience yield from the
commodity futures curve. Exploiting the fact that commodity-specific characteristics –
such as storage costs and financing costs – are more persistent than physical inventories
and convenience yields, we propose a novel measure, “relative basis,” as the difference
between the near-term traditional basis and a similarly defined distant basis.
Empirically, relative basis is much less persistent than traditional basis, as it captures
the fast-moving component of traditional basis. Moreover, relative basis is more closely
linked to physical inventories, particularly inventory decreases, than traditional basis.

    Our paper also contributes to the large literature on commodity futures returns. 6
Relative basis strongly predicts commodity futures returns in both Fama-MacBeth
regressions and calendar-time portfolio sorts, and dominates traditional basis in a horse
race to forecast commodity futures returns. Moreover, relative basis is uncorrelated with
many well-known return predictors in the commodity futures market (e.g., price
momentum, basis momentum, and smoothed hedging pressure). Thus, it provides
independent information about expected commodity futures returns and offers valuable
implications for commodity investors, hedgers, and policymakers.

    Our paper sheds additional light on the economic sources of commodity basis’
return predictability. In particular, our findings suggest that the return predictability of
(relative) basis arises, at least partially, from its relation with convenience yields, rather
than being driven by the net hedging demand of commodity consumers and producers.
First, relative basis does not forecast returns of financial futures contracts, which are
not subject to spot inventory constraints. Moreover, the return predictability of relative
basis is stronger in situations that are more likely to be associated with inventory

6
 See, for example, Chang (1985), Fama and French (1987), Hirshleifer (1988, 1990), Bessembinder (1992),
De Roon, Nijman, and Veld (2000), Miffre and Rallis (2007), Rouwenhorst and Tang (2012), Tang and
Xiong (2012), Acharya, Lochstoer, and Ramadorai (2013), Gorton, Hayashi, and Rouwenhorst (2013),
Cheng and Xiong (2014), Szymanowska et al. (2014), Boons and Prado (2019), Goldstein and Yang
(2022).


                                                  6
scarcity concerns. Therefore, our findings call for a new theory of commodity futures
that organically ties together inventories, convenience yields, and expected commodity
futures returns.

    The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 describes our data
sample and summary statistics. Section 3 discusses the motivation and empirical
attributes of our relative basis measure. Section 4 presents the return predictability of
relative basis for commodity futures. Section 5 explores potential explanations for the
association between relative basis and commodity futures returns. Section 6 concludes.



2. Data and Summary Statistics

We collect data on monthly futures prices from Commodity Systems Inc. for all
commodities traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX), Chicago Board
of Trade (CBOT), and Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME). Our sample includes 24
commodities for the period January 1979 to December 2019. We compute the excess
futures return of commodity i in month t using the price of the nearest futures contract
(i.e., the first-nearby futures contract) that does not expire in month t:

                                                  𝐹𝐹𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇)−𝐹𝐹𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡−1 (𝑇𝑇)
                                  𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 =         𝐹𝐹𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡−1 (𝑇𝑇)
                                                                                ,       (1)

where 𝐹𝐹𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇) is the futures price of commodity i at the end of month t for the nearest
contract with expiration date T, and 𝐹𝐹𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡−1 (𝑇𝑇) is the price of the same futures contract
at the end of month t-1.

    For the basis measure, we follow the related literature and define Traditional Basis
(TradtBasis) as the log-difference in prices between the nearest and second-nearest
futures contracts (i.e., the first-nearby and second-nearby contracts), scaled by their
difference in time to maturity (annualized). More formally,

                                         𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙(𝐹𝐹𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇1))−𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙(𝐹𝐹𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇2))
                     TradtBasis𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 =                  𝑇𝑇2−𝑇𝑇1
                                                                                    ,   (2)




                                                          7
where 𝐹𝐹𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇1) and 𝐹𝐹𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇2) are the futures prices for commodity i at the end of month t
for futures contracts with expiration dates 𝑇𝑇1 and 𝑇𝑇2, respectively. Note that the formal
definition of basis is the difference between the spot price and the price of the first-
nearby futures contract. However, since it is usually difficult to obtain spot prices for
most commodities, researchers often use the price difference between the first and
second nearby futures as a measure of the convenience yield. (Since 𝑇𝑇1 is usually a short
time period, 𝐹𝐹𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇1) is a good proxy for the spot price.)

    Next, we propose a new basis measure, dubbed Relative Basis (RelatBasis), as the
difference between traditional basis and a similarly defined distant basis. Specifically,
relative basis is defined as:

                                    𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙(𝐹𝐹𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇1))−𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙(𝐹𝐹𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇2))       𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙(𝐹𝐹𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇2))−𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙(𝐹𝐹𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇3))
             RelatBasis𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 =                    𝑇𝑇2−𝑇𝑇1
                                                                              −                 𝑇𝑇3−𝑇𝑇2
                                                                                                                            (3)

where 𝐹𝐹𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇1), 𝐹𝐹𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇2), and 𝐹𝐹𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇3) are the futures prices at the end of month t for the
first-nearby, second-nearby, and third-nearby futures contracts with expiration dates 𝑇𝑇1,
𝑇𝑇2, and 𝑇𝑇3, respectively. 7

    We then conduct a cross-sectional regression of traditional basis on relative basis in
each month:

                     𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 = 𝑎𝑎𝑡𝑡 + 𝑏𝑏𝑡𝑡 ∗ 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 + 𝜀𝜀𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 .                        (4)

We define Residual Basis (ResidBasis) as the sum of the intercept and residual term of
equation (4). Therefore, relative basis and residual basis are two components of
traditional basis that are orthogonal to each other by construction.

    We also construct various commodity futures characteristics that are known to
forecast commodity futures returns. These characteristics include price momentum (Erb
and Harvey, 2006; Asness, Moskowitz, and Pedersen, 2013; Asness et al., 2014), basis
momentum (Boons and Prado, 2019), and smoothed hedging pressure (Kang,

7
 In unreported results, we show that the first- and second-nearby contracts exhibit comparable trading
volume and open interest. The third-nearby contract has trading volume and open interest at
approximately 30% and 43% of those of the first-nearby contract, respectively.


                                                                        8
Rouwenhorst, and Tang, 2020). Specifically, price momentum (Momentum) is the past
twelve-month cumulative return of the commodity’s first-nearby futures contract (with
rollover). Basis momentum (BasisMom) is the difference between price momentum of
the first-nearby and that of the second-nearby futures contract. Smoothed hedging
pressure (SHP) is the average net short position (short minus long positions) of
commercial traders over the past year, scaled by the commodity’s most recent open
interest. Commercial traders’ holdings are obtained from the Commitments of Traders
(COT) report provided by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC). 8

                                      [Insert Table 1 Here]

    Panel A of Table 1 reports the time-series averages and standard deviations of
relative basis, traditional basis, and monthly returns of commodity futures. Our sample
commodities are classified into five groups: energies, metals, softs, grains, and live stocks.
Panel B presents the cross-sectional correlations between relative basis and other
commodity characteristics. For instance, relative basis has a correlation of 0.52 with
traditional basis, a correlation of 0.20 with basis momentum, and correlations of
virtually zero with price momentum and smoothed hedging pressure. It should be noted
that the correlations between relative basis and other commodity characteristics are
much lower than those between traditional basis and these commodity characteristics.

    Panel C reports the autocorrelations of the three basis variables. Relative basis has
an AR(1) coefficient of 0.34, with the autocorrelation coefficient becoming statistically
insignificant for additional lags. In contrast, traditional basis displays much higher
persistence: its first-order autocorrelation is 0.68, which decreases to somewhere 0.3 to
0.5 with additional lags. As expected, residual basis also exhibits strong persistence.
These results confirm that relative basis captures the fast-moving component of



8
  The Commitments of Traders (COT) data contain the aggregate long and short positions of different
types of commodity futures traders, including commercial traders, non-commercial traders, and non-
reportable traders. These positions are recorded every Tuesday and made available to the public three
days later, typically after the market closes on Friday. For our monthly analyses, we use the COT
positions closest to the month end.


                                                 9
traditional basis and better reflects the temporary nature of inventory shocks in the
commodity market.



3. Details of Relative Basis

3.1 A Simple Framework for Thinking about Relative Basis

The theory of storage (Working, 1949; Brennan, 1958) posits that when a commodity is
in short supply, physical ownership of the commodity is preferred over ownership (i.e.,
long positions) of futures contracts on the same commodity. This preference arises
because owners of the physical commodity receive an implicit but important benefit,
referred to as the convenience yield, which does not accrue to investors in commodity
futures. 9 The theory of storage (e.g., Brennan, 1958; Pindyck, 1994) further predicts
that the convenience yield is a convex decreasing function in the inventory level. That is,
as the inventory depletes, the marginal convenience yield on inventory rises at an
increasing rate (see Figure 1).

     Below is a textbook derivation of the futures price as a function of the spot price,
which also provides a working definition of the convenience yield.

           𝐹𝐹𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇) = 𝑆𝑆𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 exp [𝑤𝑤𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑡𝑡, 𝑇𝑇) − 𝛿𝛿𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑡𝑡, 𝑇𝑇) + 𝑟𝑟𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑡𝑡, 𝑇𝑇)] .   (5)

𝐹𝐹𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇) is the futures price of commodity i at time t with maturity T, and 𝑆𝑆𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 is the spot
price of the commodity. The difference (in logarithm) between the spot price and
futures price is the basis. As discussed earlier, since it is difficult to obtain accurate
commodity spot prices, prior studies typically use the difference between 𝐹𝐹𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇1) and


9
 The convenience yield can arise through a few channels. First, it helps ensure uninterrupted production
by providing a steady supply of commodity inputs. For example, when the commodity supply is low,
manufacturers relying on the commodity as an input are worried about the costs associated with pausing
and restarting production lines and lost client orders. Maintaining adequate inventories of the physical
commodity therefore offers a significant advantage that cannot be achieved through long positions in
commodity futures. Second, a decrease in commodity supply (or an increase in demand) leads to a price
surge, which subsequently results in price increases for related goods. When such shocks occur,
manufacturers with sufficient commodity inventories can sell their products at better prices and
potentially increase their market shares compared to their competitors who are less prepared.


                                                                     10
𝐹𝐹𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇2) (i.e., the difference between the first nearby and second nearby futures prices)
as a measure of the commodity basis. The main determinants of the basis are the
convenience yield (𝛿𝛿𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑡𝑡, 𝑇𝑇)), storage cost (𝑤𝑤𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑡𝑡, 𝑇𝑇)), and financing cost (𝑟𝑟𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑡𝑡, 𝑇𝑇)) of the
commodity.          Both        the storage and                    financing          costs       are persistent   commodity
characteristics that can vary substantially across commodities. 10

     We construct a novel measure, relative basis, by taking the difference between two
similarly defined basis measures:

       𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 = 𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇1, 𝑇𝑇2) − 𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇2, 𝑇𝑇3).      (6)

From equation (5), we have

                                            1
   TradtBasis𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇1, 𝑇𝑇2) = 𝑇𝑇2−𝑇𝑇1 [𝛿𝛿𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇1, 𝑇𝑇2) − 𝑟𝑟𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇1, 𝑇𝑇2) − 𝑤𝑤𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇1, 𝑇𝑇2)],              (7)

                                            1
   TradtBasis𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇2, 𝑇𝑇3) = 𝑇𝑇3−𝑇𝑇2 [𝛿𝛿𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇2, 𝑇𝑇3) − 𝑟𝑟𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇2, 𝑇𝑇3) − 𝑤𝑤𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇2, 𝑇𝑇3)].              (8)

We can think of                𝛿𝛿𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇1, 𝑇𝑇2) , 𝑟𝑟𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇1, 𝑇𝑇2) , and 𝑤𝑤𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇1, 𝑇𝑇2) in equation (7) as the
current-period convenience yield, financing cost, and storage cost of the commodity,
respectively. Similarly, 𝛿𝛿𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇2, 𝑇𝑇3) , 𝑟𝑟𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇2, 𝑇𝑇3) , and 𝑤𝑤𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇2, 𝑇𝑇3) in equation (8)
represent the (risk-neutral) expectations of the convenience yield, financing cost, and
storage cost in the next period.

     To simplify the difference between equations (7) and (8), and without loss of
generality, let’s consider a simple AR(1) process:

                                                 𝑌𝑌𝑡𝑡 = 𝑏𝑏 × 𝑌𝑌𝑡𝑡−1 + 𝜀𝜀𝑡𝑡 .                                         (9)

A persistent series has a 𝑏𝑏 close to one and a transient series has a 𝑏𝑏 close to zero. The
difference between 𝑌𝑌𝑡𝑡 and 𝐸𝐸(𝑌𝑌𝑡𝑡+1 ) (i.e., the difference in corresponding terms between
equations (7) and (8)) can be written as:


10
   For example, Ederington et al. (2021) employ proprietary data from Plains All American Pipeline, the
largest storage operator in Cushing, and show that storage costs do not vary much over time. Specifically,
the average annual futures-spot spread difference is over 18 times the storage cost difference. Brennan
(1958) surveys the price of cold storage for some dairy and agricultural commodities and notes that
storage cost generally remains the same from one month to the next.


                                                                      11
                  𝑌𝑌𝑡𝑡 − 𝐸𝐸𝑡𝑡 (𝑌𝑌𝑡𝑡+1 ) = 𝑌𝑌𝑡𝑡 − 𝑏𝑏 × 𝑌𝑌𝑡𝑡 = (1 − 𝑏𝑏) × (𝑏𝑏 × 𝑌𝑌𝑡𝑡−1 + 𝜀𝜀𝑡𝑡 ).   (10)

The first equality holds because 𝐸𝐸𝑡𝑡 (𝜀𝜀𝑡𝑡+1 ) = 0. It is easy to see that for a persistent
process where 𝑏𝑏 is close to one, 𝑌𝑌𝑡𝑡 − 𝐸𝐸𝑡𝑡 (𝑌𝑌𝑡𝑡+1 ) is close to zero. On the other hand, for a
transient process where 𝑏𝑏 is sufficiently small, 𝑌𝑌𝑡𝑡 − 𝐸𝐸𝑡𝑡 (𝑌𝑌𝑡𝑡+1 ) is close to 𝑏𝑏 × 𝑌𝑌𝑡𝑡−1 + 𝜀𝜀𝑡𝑡 ; it
further reduces to 𝜀𝜀𝑡𝑡 , i.e., the time-t shock to 𝑌𝑌.

     Since storage and financing costs are highly persistent (with a 𝑏𝑏 close one) at least
in the short run, 𝑤𝑤(𝑇𝑇1, 𝑇𝑇2) and 𝑤𝑤(𝑇𝑇2, 𝑇𝑇3), as well as 𝑟𝑟(𝑇𝑇1, 𝑇𝑇2) and 𝑟𝑟(𝑇𝑇2, 𝑇𝑇3), roughly
cancel out in equations (7) and (8). In other words, equation (6) is largely driven by
variation in convenience yields. Let’s further assume that T1, T2, and T3 are equally
spaced out and ∆𝑇𝑇 is the difference between T2 and T1 (or between T3 and T2).
Equation (6) can then be written as:

                                             1
                   𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 ≈ ∆𝑇𝑇 �𝛿𝛿𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇1, 𝑇𝑇2) − 𝛿𝛿𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑇𝑇2, 𝑇𝑇3)�.    (11)

Equation (11) indicates that relative basis is approximately the time-scaled difference
between the current-period convenience yield (the first term) and the expectation of the
next-period convenience yield (the second term).

     Schwartz (1997) and Casassus and Collin-Dufresne (2005) argue that inventories
follow a mean-reverting process, which is empirically confirmed by Liu and Tang (2011)
and Gorton, Hayashi, and Rouwenhorst (2013). 11 To the extent that convenience yields
and inventories reflect the same underlying demand-supply forces, we also expect
convenience yields to follow a mean-reverting pattern (i.e., a transient process with a
small 𝑏𝑏). Consequently, as per equations (10) and (11), relative basis captures (time-
scaled) shocks to convenience yields. It is important to note that we do not require 𝑏𝑏 =
0, or put differently, shocks to convenience yields to completely dissipate within one
period. As long as convenience yields are less persistent than storage and financing costs,
our simple differencing exercise helps isolate the former from the latter.


11
  For instance, a negative shock to inventories leads to an increase in the commodity price, which in turn
reduces consumption and stimulates production. As a result, inventories rebound in the next period.


                                                               12
       To further illustrate the intuition by example, imagine a negative supply shock to a
commodity, so its inventory declines and convenience yield rises. We then expect the
next-period convenience yield to decline (or to revert back to its mean) as the demand
and supply adjust to absorb the shock. As a result, relative basis – which is the
difference between the current-period convenience yield and the expected next-period
convenience yield – is also positive in this case.

       Moreover, given the convex, inverse relation between convenience yields and
inventories (see Figure 1), we expect a stronger association between relative basis and
negative inventory shocks than the association between relative basis and positive
inventory shocks. This is because with inventory decreases, the commodity is more
likely to be in or near the stockout status. This leads to an immediate spike in
convenience yield (which is expected to revert in the future) and hence high relative
basis.



3.2 Relations to Inventory Changes

In this subsection, we examine the relations between various commodity basis measures
and (changes in) commodity inventories. Specifically, following the approach in Gorton,
Hayashi, and Rouwenhorst (2013), we collect monthly inventory data for our sample of
commodities for the period January 1993 to December 2018. 12 We then take the
following steps to clean up the inventory data. First, we divide the raw inventory level
of each commodity in each month by its past 12-month average to account for any time
trend in inventories. Second, we normalize the scaled inventory level constructed above
by its time-series standard deviation for each commodity (so that inventories are more
comparable across commodities). After that, we define the inventory change
(InventChgi,t) as the difference between the normalized inventory level for a commodity
in month t and that in month t-1. We also introduce an increase-of-inventory variable
(InventIncrsi,t) that equals InventChgi,t if the inventory change is positive and zero

12
     Our sample period is limited by the availability of inventory data.

                                                       13
otherwise, as well as a decrease-of-inventory variable (InventDecrsi,t) that equals
InventChgi,t if the inventory change is negative and zero otherwise.

                                        [Insert Table 2 Here]

     In Table 2, we conduct Fama-MacBeth regressions of relative basis and residual
basis on past inventory levels and changes. The first two columns show that relative
basis is strongly associated with lagged inventory changes as well as levels. For example,
in Column 2, the regression coefficient estimates of inventory change and inventory level
are -0.029 (t-statistic = -5.55) and -0.009 (t-statistic = -3.87), respectively. This
observation suggests that the relative basis increases when the inventory decreases and
becomes scarcer, which is consistent with the prediction of theory of storage.

     We then split inventory changes into increases and decreases in Columns 3 and 4.
Consistent with the convex relationship between convenience yields and inventories, we
find that relative basis is more strongly related to inventory decreases; the coefficient on
InventDecrs is twice as large as that on InventIncrs. Specifically, in Column 4, the
regression coefficient of inventory decrease (InventDecrs) is -0.038 (t-statistic = -3.51).
This is in sharp contrast with the regression coefficient of inventory increase
(InventIncrs), which is an insignificant -0.016. Columns 5-8 repeat these analyses for
residual basis. In contrast to what we observe in Columns 1-4, residual basis is
statistically unrelated to inventory levels and changes, with all the corresponding
regression coefficients being virtually zero. 13

     In sum, by purging out the persistent components of commodity futures basis, we
obtain a more precise measure of the commodity convenience yield. Compared to
physical inventory data, which are usually incomplete, noisy, and disclosed with
significant delays, our relative basis measure, which is derived from futures prices, offers
real-time, market-based information on convenience yields. As such, it provides a


13
   In Appendix Table A1, we employ an alternative measure of inventory changes, defined as the
difference in inventories between month t and the average in months t-1 and t-2. The results are virtually
unchanged. Relative basis is strongly associated with inventory changes, particularly inventory decreases,
while residual basis is unrelated to inventory changes.


                                                   14
valuable tool for policymakers and practitioners to gauge the fluctuations of the demand
and supply in commodity markets.



4. Return Predictability of Relative Basis

One of the most important findings of prior studies on commodity futures is that
commodity futures with a positive basis (i.e., those with a downward-sloping futures
curve) earn significantly higher returns than commodity futures with a negative basis
(Fama and French, 1987; Szymanowska et al., 2014; Bakshi, Gao, and Rossi, 2019). We
show in the previous section that our novel relative basis measure better captures shocks
to convenience yields than traditional basis. In this section, we examine the return
forecasting ability of both traditional basis and relative basis by stacking them in a
horse race. This exercise can help shed light on the underlying mechanisms of the return
predictability of commodity futures basis.



4.1 Fama-MacBeth Regressions

We start by conducting Fama-MacBeth forecasting regressions of commodity futures
returns on various basis measures (traditional basis, relative basis, and residual basis):

     𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑡𝑡𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡+1 = 𝑎𝑎𝑡𝑡 + 𝑏𝑏1,𝑡𝑡 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 + 𝑏𝑏2,𝑡𝑡 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 �𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 �

                                                           +𝜆𝜆𝑡𝑡 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 + 𝜀𝜀𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 .                                  (12)

The list of control variables includes price momentum, defined as the cumulative
commodity futures return in the past 12 months (Asness, Moskowitz, and Pedersen,
2013; Moskowitz, Ooi, and Pedersen, 2012; Babu et al., 2020) and basis momentum, the
difference in lagged 12-month returns between the first-nearby and second-nearby
futures contracts (Boons and Prado, 2019).

                                                        [Insert Table 3 Here]




                                                                         15
     Panel A of Table 3 reports the regression results for commodity futures returns in
the next month. In univariate regressions, as shown in Columns 1 to 3, both relative
basis and traditional basis have statistically significant forecasting power for commodity
futures returns. The coefficient on relative basis is 0.019 (t-statistic = 3.44) and that on
traditional basis is 0.011 (t-statistic = 2.16). The coefficient on residual basis, however,
is a statistically insignificant 0.010 (t-statistic = 1.43), already suggesting that the
return predictability of commodity futures basis comes from its fast-moving component
(i.e., relative basis).

     In Columns 4-6, we control for other commodity characteristics in the regressions,
such as commodity momentum and basis momentum. As shown in Column 4, the
coefficient estimate on relative basis is largely unaffected by the controls and remains
statistically significant at 0.018 (t-statistic = 2.65). In terms of the economic magnitude,
a one-standard-deviation increase in relative basis is associated with a 31 bps higher
monthly futures return. In contrast, as can be seen in Column 6, traditional basis loses
its forecasting power for commodity futures returns once we include the controls in the
regression. In Columns 7 and 8, we run a horserace between relative basis and
traditional basis (or residual basis), together with the control variables. Relative basis
dominates both traditional basis and residual basis in predicting commodity futures
returns.

     In Panel B, we repeat the forecasting exercise except that now the dependent
variable is the commodity futures return in the following quarter. The results are by
and large unchanged. In sum, our results suggest that relative basis possesses strong
return predictive power and dominates both traditional basis and residual basis in
forecasting commodity futures returns.



4.2 Calendar-Time Portfolio Sorts

We also conduct calendar-time portfolio sorts to gauge the economic magnitude of the
return predictability of relative basis. Specifically, at the end of each month, we sort all

                                             16
commodity futures into terciles based on one of the basis measures (relative basis,
traditional basis or residual basis). We then report the equal-weighted returns of the
three portfolios.

                                     [Insert Table 4 Here]

     Table 4 reports the portfolio returns. When considered in isolation, all three basis
measures positively forecast commodity futures returns. For example, a simple long-
short portfolio that goes long the top one third commodity futures and short the bottom
one third ranked by relative basis yields a return of 81 bps (t-statistic = 3.99) in the
following month and a return of 2.71% (t-statistic = 6.64) in the following quarter. We
also find statistically significant return spreads of commodity futures portfolios sorted
by traditional basis (75bps in the following month and 2.89% in the following quarter),
as well as those sorted by residual basis (65bps in the following month and 2.12% in the
following quarter). These results are consistent with the findings of Yang (2013) and
Bakshi, Gao, and Rossi (2019).

     We then conduct a portfolio-spanning test in Table 5, where we regress the long-
short portfolio return sorted by one of the basis measures on the contemporaneous long-
short portfolio return sorted by another basis measure. We further control for common
risk factors in the commodity market, including the market factor (equal-weighted
returns of all commodities in our sample), the price momentum factor, and the basis
momentum factor. 14

                                     [Insert Table 5 Here]

     As can be seen from Column 1 of Table 5, the long-short portfolio sorted by
relative basis has a statistically significant monthly alpha of 69 bps (t-statistic = 3.48)
after controlling for the market, price momentum, and basis momentum factors.
Including the contemporaneous long-short portfolio return ranked by residual basis
(Column 2) or traditional basis (Column 3) on the right-hand side of the equation has

14
  As shown in Appendix Table A2, the return correlations between the long-short portfolio sorted by
relative basis and other factors in the commodity market are generally low.


                                                17
little impact on this alpha. In contrast, as shown in Columns 4-7, the long-short
portfolio sorted by either traditional basis or residual basis has an economically small
and statistically insignificant alpha when controlling for the contemporaneous long-short
portfolio return sorted by relative basis and other common risk factors. For instance,
the long-short portfolio ranked by traditional basis has a monthly alpha of -2 bps with a
t-statistic of -0.12 in the full specification. These portfolio return results are consistent
with the Fama-MacBeth regression estimates reported in Table 3.



4.3 Robustness Tests

We conduct an array of additional tests to ensure the robustness of our main findings.
First, we divide our sample into two subperiods: 1979-1999 and 2000-2019. Appendix
Table A3 shows that relative basis consistently forecasts commodity futures returns in
both subperiods. Second, while most commodities in our sample have futures contracts
that mature every two months, some energy commodities (including crude oil, heating
oil, and natural gas) have futures contracts that mature every month. In Appendix
Table A4, we focus on futures contracts that are two months apart in identifying the
first, second, and third nearby contracts (so the timing of the basis calculation is aligned
across all commodities in the sample). The results are by and large unchanged. Third,
instead of using Fama-Macbeth regressions, we employ panel regressions with two-way
fixed effects and clustered standard errors. The coefficient estimates, reported in
Appendix Table A5, are similar to those from the Fama-MacBeth regressions in Table 3.



5. Underlying Economic Mechanisms

As discussed earlier, there are two possible accounts for the association between relative
basis (or convenience yields) and expected commodity futures returns. The first
explanation draws on the theory of storage. Prior research (e.g., Gorton, Hayashi, and
Rouwenhorst, 2013) shows that inventory is negatively related to expected commodity
futures returns, possibly because inventories help absorb/cushion temporary fluctuations

                                             18
in demand and supply, so commodities with low inventories have riskier returns. To the
extent that the convenience yield arises from inventory scarcity, the former should also
forecast commodity futures returns.

        The alternative view is motivated by the theory of normal backwardation (Keynes,
1930; Hicks, 1939). The argument is that commodity basis can be influenced by the net
hedging       demand      of   commodity       consumers      and     producers.     Consequently,   the
predictability of basis for commodity futures returns may reflect the risk premium
earned by hedging insurance providers who take the opposite side of the net hedging
demand. To illustrate by example, imagine that commodity producers become more risk
averse and decide to hedge more of their inventory risk by going short in the futures
market. To the extent that insurance providers have limited risk-bearing capacity, the
short-futures trading by commodity producers pushes down the prices of commodity
futures (relative to the future spot price), which may result in both a positive basis and
a higher expected futures return.



5.1 Return Predictability for Financial Futures

To start, we investigate the return predictability of the three basis measures for
financial futures contracts 15 Since financial instruments, such as equity indices,
currencies, and interest rates, are not subject to physical inventory constraints (as
investors can easily create additional supply through short selling), the inventory-based
explanation should only apply to commodity futures and not to financial futures. In
contrast, the hedging-risk-premium based explanation applies to both. In other words, if
the return predictability of relative basis indeed operates through its association with
convenience yields, we expect relative basis to have insignificant predictive power for
financial futures returns.

                                           [Insert Table 6 Here]


15
     Appendix Table A6 reports summary statistics of our sample of financial futures contracts.


                                                      19
     As shown in Table 6, consistent with the inventory-based interpretation, relative
basis does not predict financial futures returns in all specifications. For example, in a
univariate-regression (Column 1 of Panel A) to forecast the next-month futures returns,
the coefficient estimate on relative basis is statistically insignificant at 0.013 (t-statistic
= 0.11). In contrast, both residual basis and traditional basis exhibit strong predictive
power for financial futures returns. 16 For example, in the full specification with all the
controls, the coefficient estimate on residual basis is 0.083 (t-statistic = 2.92) when
forecasting next-month returns (Column 7 of Panel A), and it is 0.208 (t-statistic = 2.68)
when forecasting next-quarter returns (Column 7 of Panel B). 17

     This result is consistent with the finding in Koijen et al. (2018) that carry (with a
similar construction to traditional basis) is an important characteristic that forecasts
asset returns in many asset classes, including both commodity and financial futures
markets. Our results suggest that the return predictability of basis (or carry) in different
asset classes may arise from different mechanisms.

     Given the stark contrast between commodity futures and financial futures, we next
exclude from our sample a set of commodities that behave somewhat like financial
instruments. This subset includes precious metals such as Gold, Silver, and Platinum,
which are often viewed as stores of value and are not major inputs to production or
consumption processes. As shown in Appendix Table A9, excluding the precious metal
contracts from our sample of commodity futures has virtually no impact on the return
predictability of relative basis. For example, the risk-adjusted return of the long-short
relative-basis portfolio increases slightly from 69 bps per month in Table 5 (including all

16
  In Appendix Table A7, we conduct a calendar-time portfolio sort for financial futures. There is a small
and insignificant return difference between the high and low portfolios sorted by relative basis. In contrast,
the return spread between the high and low portfolios ranked by traditional basis (or residual basis) is
large and significant. These findings are consistent with the regression results presented in Table 6.
17
  In Appendix Table A8, we repeat the exercises in Tables 3 and 6 but now with standardized basis
measures. Specifically, each month, we standardize all independent variables by subtracting their cross-
sectional means and then dividing by their cross-sectional standard deviations. This procedure addresses
the concern that relative basis for financial futures is much smaller in magnitude than that for commodity
futures. The results are by and large unchanged: the standardized relative basis measure predicts
commodity futures returns but not financial futures returns, while the opposite is true for standardized
traditional basis (as well as standardized residual basis).


                                                     20
commodities) to 72 bps (t-statistic = 3.14) in Appendix Table A9 (excluding precious
metals).

    In sum, in contrast to our earlier result that the fast-moving component of
traditional basis forecasts commodity futures returns, it is the slow-moving component
of traditional basis – related to, for instance, the interest rate differentials – that
predicts financial futures returns. These findings suggest that the return predictability
of relative basis for commodity futures returns is more consistent with the inventory-
based interpretation where time-varying inventory constraints play an important role.



5.2 Asymmetric Return Predictability of Relative Basis

Our second test exploits a unique prediction of the theory of storage – that there is a
convex relation between convenience yields and inventories. The theory of storage posits
that the marginal convenience yield increases at an increasing rate as inventories deplete.
When inventories are close to the stockout level, the marginal benefit of holding
physical inventories rises sharply. Consequently, convenience yields have much more
variation and become a more important consideration when inventories are low. If the
return predictability of relative basis operates through convenience yields, we expect the
effect to be stronger when relative basis is positive than when it is negative, as the
former indicates low inventories and large variation in convenience yields.

    To test this prediction, we conduct the following Fama-MacBeth regression:

       𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑡𝑡𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡+1 = 𝑎𝑎𝑡𝑡 + 𝑏𝑏1,𝑡𝑡 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑠𝑠_𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 + 𝑏𝑏2,𝑡𝑡 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅_𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡

                        +𝑏𝑏3,𝑡𝑡 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 (𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 ) + 𝜆𝜆𝑡𝑡 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 + 𝜀𝜀𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡   (13)

where RelatBasis_posi,t (RelatBasis_negi,t) is equal to relative basis of commodity i in
month t if it is positive (negative) and zero otherwise. We include the same set of
controls as in Table 3.

                                                        [Insert Table 7 Here]



                                                                          21
     Consistent with our prediction, Table 7 shows that positive relative basis
(RelatBasis_posi,t) significantly forecasts commodity futures returns across all regression
specifications. In terms of the economic magnitude, as shown in Column 2 of Panel A, a
one-standard-deviation increase in positive relative basis is associated with an 81 bps
higher commodity futures return in the following month. In contrast, the coefficient on
negative relative basis (RelatBasis_negi,t) is far from being statistically significant. We
find similar results in Panel B when predicting quarterly commodity futures returns.
Together, our analysis suggests that it is the positive relative basis, which is associated
with the shortage of inventories and high importance of convenience yields, that drives
the return predictability of relative basis for commodity futures.



5.3 Conditional on the Business Cycle

Following a similar logic, we argue that the return predictability of relative basis is
stronger in economic expansions than in economic contractions. In economic expansions,
the demand for commodities – from both manufacturers and consumers – is higher, so
commodities are more likely to be in short supply; as a result, convenience yields have
more variation and become more important in expansions. We utilize two measures of
business cycles: a) the Philadelphia Fed Aruoba-Diebold-Scotti (ADS) Business
Conditions Index and b) the Chicago Fed National Activity Index (CFNAI). 18 We then
divide our sample into two equal subperiods – economy expansions and contractions –
based on either index.

     In Appendix Table A10, we repeat the calendar-time portfolio analysis of Table 4
for both economic expansions and contractions. In Panel A, where we use the ADS
index to measure business cycles, the return spread of relative-basis-sorted commodity

18
  The Aruoba-Diebold-Scotti Business Conditions Index (ADS Index), maintained by the Philadelphia
Fed, is designed to track real business conditions at a relatively high frequency. The average value of the
ADS Index is zero, with increases (decreases) indicating improved (deteriorating) macroeconomic
conditions. The Chicago Fed National Activity Index (CFNAI Index), maintained by the Chicago Fed, is
a monthly index that evaluates overall economic activity and related inflationary pressure (see, for
example, Allen, Bali, and Tang, 2012). For details of the two business cycle indices, please see ADS Index
and CFNAI Index.


                                                    22
futures portfolios formed in expansionary periods is 1.24% (t-statistic = 4.45) in the
following month. In contrast, the monthly return spread of relative-basis-sorted
portfolios formed in contractionary periods is only 0.38% (t-statistic = 1.40). The
difference in monthly return spread between these two periods is 0.86% (t-statistic =
2.21). We obtain similar results when forecasting quarterly portfolio returns. In Panel B,
we repeat the same exercises with the CFNAI Index, and the results are similar. 19

                                         [Insert Table 8 Here]

     We then conduct Fama-MacBeth return forecasting regressions separately for
economic expansions and contractions. As shown in Table 8, with both proxies for
business cycles, the coefficient estimate on relative basis is significantly positive in the
months of economic expansions and statistically insignificant in the months of economic
contractions. 20 Moreover, the return predictability of relative basis during economic
expansions mainly comes from the positive side of relative basis (RelatBasis_posi,t)
rather than the negative side (RelatBasis_negi,t). These results again confirm that the
return predictability of relative basis is stronger when the convenience yield has more
variation and is relatively more important. 21



5.4 Spread Trading of Non-Commercial Investors




 Boons (2016) suggests that the business cycle risk is also an important factor for investors in the stock
19

market.
20
  We repeat the same exercises for traditional basis. As shown in Appendix Table A11, similar to the
unconditional test, once we include all the controls, traditional basis does not forecast commodity futures
returns either in economic expansions or contractions. There is also no discernible difference between the
return predictability of positive and negative traditional basis for commodity futures returns.
21
  Levine et al. (2018) document that commodity futures returns are higher in economy expansions than
in economic contractions. We find that the market return difference between economic expansions and
contractions is mostly driven by high relative-basis commodities. For example, the average monthly
return difference of the high relative-basis tercile portfolio (P3) between economic expansions and
contractions is 0.58%, while that of the other commodities (i.e., those in P1 and P2) is a statistically
insignificant -0.03%. In short, our results suggest that convenience yields also play a role in the dynamics
of commodity market returns.


                                                    23
In   this   subsection,          we       construct             a     measure             of      speculators’              spread       trading,
SpreadPositioni,t, as the aggregate non-commercial traders’ spread position in
commodity futures divided by the open interest of the commodity. In the Commitment
of Traders (COT) data, the CFTC defines spread trading for each non-commercial
trader as having offsetting futures positions in the same commodity with different
maturities. Therefore, spread positions indicate the extent to which speculators engage
in term-structure-related arbitrage in the commodity futures market: for example, a
larger amount of spread positions implies more intense term-structure arbitrage activity.

     We then examine the impact of speculators’ spread trading on the return
predictability of relative basis. Intuitively, the return effect should decline as more
speculators engage in term-structure-based arbitrage. Table 9 conducts the following
Fama-MacBeth regression:

              𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑡𝑡𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡+1 = 𝑎𝑎𝑡𝑡 + 𝑏𝑏1,𝑡𝑡 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 +𝑏𝑏2,𝑡𝑡 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 ∗ 𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 +
                                        𝑏𝑏3,𝑡𝑡 𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 + 𝜆𝜆𝑡𝑡 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 + 𝜀𝜀𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 .            (14)

The main explanatory variables are RelatBasisi,t, SpreadPositioni,t, and their interaction
term. We use the same set of control variables as in Table 3.

                                                    [Insert Table 9 Here]

     As can be seen from Column 1 of Table 9, the predictive power of relative basis for
next-month’s commodity                     futures return                   remains economically                            and   statistically
significant in the subsample starting 1993 (due to the availability of the COT data),
with a coefficient estimate of 0.018 (t-statistic = 2.41). As shown in Column 2, the
coefficient on the interaction between relative basis and spread positions is -0.541 (t-
statistic = -2.36). In other words, a one-standard-deviation increase in SpreadPosition
reduces the coefficient on relative basis by 0.020. The results are similar if we instead
forecast commodity future returns in the next quarter (Columns 3 and 4). Appendix
Table A12 conducts a similar return-forecasting regression of residual basis.
Unsurprisingly, the coefficient on the interaction term between residual basis and spread
positions is economically small and statistically insignificant.

                                                                      24
5.5 Smoothed Hedging Pressure

Kang, Rouwenhorst, and Tang (2020) propose a measure of net hedging demand of
commodity producers and consumers by isolating the long-term component of
commercial hedgers’ positions in the commodity futures market. This approach is
motivated by the finding that the short-term component of commercial hedgers’
positions is more related to the liquidity need of non-commercial speculators. Specifically,
the smoothed-hedging pressure (SHP) variable of Kang, Rouwenhorst, and Tang (2020)
is the one-year moving average of the net positions of commercial hedgers. As can be
seen from Panel B of Table 1, the correlation between SHP and relative basis is nearly
zero, suggesting that relative basis is largely distinct from hedging pressure.

                                  [Insert Table 10 Here]

    We then repeat the return forecasting regressions of Table 3 with both relative basis
and smoothed hedging pressure (SHP). As shown in Table 10, in univariate regressions,
both relative basis and SHP significantly forecast commodity futures returns. When
relative basis and SHP are included in the same regression, along with other controls,
both variables retain their return forecasting power (which is unsurprising given their
low correlation.) We also perform a portfolio spanning test in Appendix Table A13
(similar to that of Table 5). Neither the long-short portfolio sorted by relative basis nor
that sorted by SHP subsumes the other.



5.6 Basis Momentum

In a recent study, Boons and Prado (2019) propose a basis-momentum measure, defined
as the difference between the 12-month cumulative return of the first-nearby futures
contract and that of the second-nearby contract. They show that basis momentum is a
strong predictor of commodity futures returns. We argue that our relative basis measure
is intrinsically different from basis momentum. First, Panel B of Table 1 reveals a low


                                             25
correlation between relative basis and basis momentum of 0.20. Second, Table 3 shows
that after controlling for basis momentum, relative basis retains its significant predictive
power for commodity futures returns. This finding is further confirmed in Table 5,
where the long-short portfolio of commodity futures sorted by relative basis produces a
significant alpha after controlling for the basis-momentum factor and other known
common factors in the commodity futures market. 22 Third, Table 6 shows that while
basis momentum strongly forecasts financial futures returns, relative basis (which is
more closely related to commodities’ inventory constraints) does not. Taken together,
our results indicate that the return predictability of relative basis and that of basis
momentum likely arise from different economic channels.



6. Conclusion

We propose a novel measure of shocks to commodity convenience yields. Our measure,
dubbed “relative basis,” is the difference between the traditional near-term futures basis
and a similarly defined distant futures basis. Doing so allows us to purge out
confounding factors in traditional basis that are associated with persistent commodity
characteristics such as storage and financing costs.

     Our relative basis measure is an empirical success based on several findings. First,
relative basis is much less persistent than traditional basis. Second, relative basis is
more closely linked to commodities’ physical inventories, particularly decreases in
inventories, than traditional basis. Third, relative basis has much stronger predictive
power for commodity futures returns than traditional basis, and dominates traditional
basis when both are included in the return forecasting regressions.

     We then conduct an array of additional analyses to shed more light on the
economic mechanisms underpinning the observed return predictability. First, we show


22
  In Appendix Table A14, we show that the basis-momentum portfolio generates a significantly positive
alpha after controlling for the relative-basis factor return, indicating that the two factors are largely
uncorrelated with each other.


                                                   26
that relative basis only forecasts the returns of commodity futures and not the returns
of financial futures, as financial contracts are not subject to inventory constraints.
Second, the return predictability of relative basis is stronger when there is more
variation in convenience yields – for example, when relative basis is positive or during
periods of economic expansions. Third, we find that relative basis and smoothed hedging
pressure are virtually uncorrelated and have independent return forecasting power.
Together, our set of findings suggests that the return predictability of relative basis
arises from its relation with the convenience yield of a commodity instead of the
imbalance in hedging demand by commodity consumers and producers.

    In conclusion, our simple differencing exercise produces a better measure of shocks
to convenience yields, as well as a strong and independent predictor for commodity
futures returns. Our approach provides useful insights into the underlying economic
factors that drive the relation between commodity basis and commodity futures returns.
Our findings therefore call for a new theory of commodity futures that ties together
inventories, convenience yields, and expected commodity futures returns.




                                           27
References
Acharya, Viral V., Lars A. Lochstoer, and Tarun Ramadorai, 2013, Limits to arbitrage
    and hedging: Evidence from commodity markets, Journal of Financial Economics
    109, 441-465.

Allen, Linda, Turan G. Bali, and Yi Tang, 2012, Does Systemic Risk in the Financial
     Sector Predict Future Economic Downturns?, Review of Financial Studies 25,
     3000–3036.

Asness, Clifford, Tobias Moskowitz, and Lasse Pedersen, 2013, Value and Momentum
    Everywhere, Journal of Finance 68, 929-985.

Asness, Clifford, Andrea Frazzini, Ronen Israel, and Tobias Moskowitz, 2014, Fact,
    fiction and momentum investing, Journal of Portfolio Management 40, 75-92.

Babu, Abhilash, Ari Levine, Yao Hua Ooi, Lasse Heje Pedersen, and Erik Stamelos,
    2020, Trends Everywhere, Journal of Investment Management 18, 52-68.

Bailey, Warren and K.C. Chan, 1993, Macroeconomic Influences and the Variability of
     the Commodity Futures Basis, Journal of Finance 48, 555-573.

Bakshi, Gurdip, Xiaohui Gao and Alberto G. Rossi, 2019, Understanding the Sources of
    Risk Underlying the Cross Section of Commodity Returns, Management Science 65,
    619-641.

Basak, Suleyman and Anna Pavlova, 2016, A model of financialization of commodities,
    Journal of Finance 71, 1511-1556.

Bessembinder, Hank, 1992, Systematic risk, hedging pressure, and risk premiums in
     futures markets, Review of Financial Studies 4, 637–667.

Bhardwaj, Geetesh, Rajkumar Janardanan, and K. Geert Rouwenhorst, 2019, The
    Commodity Futures Risk Premium: 1871 – 2018, working paper, Yale University.

Boons, Martijn, 2016, State variables, macroeconomic activity and the cross-section of
    individual stocks, Journal of Financial Economics 119, 489-511.

Boons, Martijn and Melissa Porras Prado, 2019, Basis-Momentum, Journal of Finance
    74, 239-279.

Brennan, Michael, 1958, The supply of storage, American Economics Review 48, 50–72.

Brennan, Michael, 1991, The price of convenience and the valuation of commodity
    contingent claims, in: D. Lund and B. Oksendal (eds), Stochastic Models and
    Option Values, Emerald Group Publishing, North Holland (Amsterdam).


                                          28
Casassus, Jaime and Pierre Collin-Dufresne, 2005, Stochastic Convenience Yield Implied
    from Commodity Futures and Interest Rates, Journal of Finance 60, 2283-2331.

Chang, Eric C, 1985, Returns to speculators and the theory of normal backwardation,
    Journal of Finance 40, 193–208.

Cheng, Ing-Haw and Wei Xiong, 2014, The Financialization of Commodity Futures
    Markets, Annual Review of Financial Economics 6, 419-441.

Deaton, Angus and Guy Laroque, 1992, On the Behavior of Commodity Prices, Review
    of Economic Studies 59, 1-23.

Deaton, Angus and Guy Laroque, 1996, Competitive Storage and Commodity Price
    Dynamics, Journal of Political Economy 104, 896-923.

De Roon, Frans, Theo E. Nijman, and Chris Veld, 2000, Hedging pressure effects in
    futures markets, Journal of Finance 55, 1437–1456.

Dewally, Michael, Louis H. Ederington, and Chitru S. Fernando, 2013, Determinants of
    Trader Profits in Commodity Futures Markets, Review of Financial Studies 26,
    2648-2683.

Ederington, Louis H., Chitru S. Fernando, Kateryna V. Holland, Thomas K. Lee, and
     Scott C. Linn, 2021, Dynamics of arbitrage, Journal of Financial and Quantitative
     Analysis 56, 1350-1380.

Erb, Claude and Campbell Harvey, 2006, The Strategic and Tactical Value of
    Commodity Futures, Financial Analysts Journal 62, 69-97.

Fama, Eugene F. and Kenneth R. French, 1987, Commodity futures prices: Some
    evidence on forecast power, premiums, and the theory of storage, Journal of
    Business 60, 55–73.

Fama, Eugene F. and Kenneth R. French, 1988, Business cycles and the behavior of
    metal prices, Journal of Finance 43, 1075–1093.

Geman, Hélyette and Vu-Nhat Nguyen, 2005, Soybean Inventory and Forward Curve
   Dynamics, Management Science 51, 1076–1091.

Gibson, Rajna and Eduardo S. Schwartz, 1990, Stochastic convenience yield and the
    pricing of oil contingent claims, Journal of Finance 45, 959-976.

Goldstein, Itay and Liyan Yang, 2022, Commodity Financialization and Information
    Transmission, Journal of Finance 77, 2613-2667.



                                          29
Gorton, Gary and K. Geert Rouwenhorst, 2006, Facts and Fantasies about Commodity
    Returns, Financial Analysts Journal 62, 47-68.

Gorton Gary, Fumio Hayashi, and K. Geert Rouwenhorst 2013, The fundamentals of
    commodity futures returns, Review of Finance 17, 35-105.

Hicks, JR., 1939, Value and Capital. Cambridge, UK: Oxford University Press.

Hirshleifer, David, 1988, Residual Risk, Trading Costs, and Commodity Futures Risk
     Premia, Review of Financial Studies 1988, 173-193.

Hirshleifer, David, 1990, Hedging Pressure and Futures Price Movements in a General
     Equilibrium Model, Econometrica 58, 411-428.

Hong, Harrison and Motohiro Yogo, 2012, What does futures market interest tell us
    about the macroeconomy and asset prices?, Journal of Financial Economics
    105,473–490.

Jia, Jian and Sang Baum Kang, 2022, Do the basis and other predictors of futures
     return also predict spot return with the same signs and magnitudes? Evidence from
     the LME, Journal of Commodity Markets 25, 100187.

Kaldor, Nicholas, 1939, Speculation and economic stability, Review of Economic Studies
    7, 1–27.

Kang, Wenjin, K. Geert Rouwenhorst, and Ke Tang, 2020, A Tale of Two Premiums:
    The Role of Hedgers and Speculators in Commodity Futures Markets, Journal of
    Finance 75, 377-417.

Keynes, J.M., 1930, A Treatise on Money, Macmillan, London.

Koijen, Ralph, Tobias Moskowitz, Lasse H. Pedersen, and Evert Vrugt, 2018, Carry,
     Journal of Financial Economics 127, 197-225.

Levine, Ari, Yao Hua Ooi, Matthew Richardson, and Caroline Sasseville, 2018,
     Commodities for the Long Run, Financial Analysts Journal 74, 55-68.

Liu, Peng and Ke Tang, 2011, The stochastic behavior of commodity prices with
     heteroskedasticity in the convenience yield, Journal of Empirical Finance 18, 211-
     224.

Miffre, Joelle and Georgios Rallis, 2007, Momentum strategies in commodity futures
     markets, Journal of Banking and Finance 31, 1863-1886.

Miffre, Joelle, 2016, Long-short commodity investing: A review of the literature, Journal
     of Commodity Markets 1, 3-13.


                                           30
Moskowitz, Tobias J. Yao Hua Ooi, and Lasse Heje Pedersen, 2012, Time Series
    Momentum, Journal of Financial Economics 104, 228-250.

Newey, Whitney K. and Kenneth D. West, 1987, A simple, positive semi-definite,
    heteroskedasticity and autocorrelation consistent covariance matrix, Econometrica
    55, 703–708.

Ng, Victor K. and Stephen Craig Pirrong, 1994, Fundamentals and volatility: Storage,
    spreads, and the dynamics of metals prices, Journal of Business 67, 203-230.

Ooi, Yao Hua, Thomas Maloney, and Alfie Brixton, 2022, Building a Better
    Commodities Portfolio, working paper, AQR.

Pindyck, Robert S., 1994, Inventories and the short-run dynamics of commodity prices,
    RAND Journal of Economics 25, 141–159.

Ready, Robert C., Nikolai L. Roussanov, and Colin Ward, 2017, Commodity Trade and
    the Carry Trade: A Tale of Two Countries, Journal of Finance 72, 2629-2684.

Routledge, Bryan R., Duane J. Seppi, and Chester S. Spatt, 2000, Equilibrium forward
    curves for commodities, Journal of Finance 55, 1297–1338.

Rouwenhorst, K. Geert and Ke Tang, 2012, Commodity investing, Annual Review of
    Financial Economics, 447-467.

Scheinkman, Jose A. and Jack Schechtman, 1983, A simple competitive model with
     production and storage, Review of Economic Studies 50, 427-441.

Schwartz, Eduardo, 1997, The Stochastic Behavior of Commodity Prices: Implications
    for Valuation and Hedging, Journal of Finance 52, 923-973.

Szymanowska, Marta, Frans De Roon, Theo Nijman and Rob Van Den Goorbergh, 2014
    An Anatomy of Commodity Futures Risk Premia, Journal of Finance 69, 453-482.

Tang, Ke and Wei Xiong, 2012, Index investment and financialization of commodities,
    Financial Analyst Journal 68, 54-74.

Working, Holbrook 1949, The theory of the price of storage, American Economic Review
    39, 1254–1262.

Wright, Brian D. and Jeffrey C. Williams, 1982, The economic role of commodity
    storage, Economic Journal 92,596-614.

Yang, Fan, 2013, Investment Shocks and the Commodity Basis Spread, Journal of
    Financial Economics 110, 164-184.



                                         31
    Figure 1: The Relation between Convenience Yields and Commodity Inventories




In this figure, the x-axis represents the inventory level and the y-axis represents the convenience
yield.




                                                32
                                 Table 1: Summary Statistics

This table provides summary statistics of the main variables. TradtBasis is the traditional basis,
defined as the log difference of the prices of the first-nearby and second-nearby futures contracts,
scaled by their maturity time difference (annualized). RelatBasis is the relative basis, defined as
the difference between the traditional basis measure and a distant basis measure from futures
contracts with longer expiration dates (i.e., the second-nearby and third-nearby contracts).
ResidBasis is the residual basis, defined as the sum of intercept and residual term from a cross-
sectional regression of traditional basis (TradtBasis) on relative basis (RelatBasis). Momentum
is the price momentum, which is the cumulative past twelve-month return of the first-nearby
futures contract. BasisMom is the basis momentum, defined as the difference between the two
price momentums from the first-nearby and second-nearby futures contracts. SHP is the
smoothed hedging pressure, defined as the past one-year moving average of the net short
position (short minus long positions) of commercial traders (as defined by the CFTC COT
database), scaled by the commodity’s most recent open interest. The sample period is January
1979 to December 2019 (SHP starts in January 1993 due to the availability of the COT data).
Panel A reports the time-series average of TradtBasis, RelatBasis, and futures returns across 24
commodities. We sort commodities into five categories: energies, precious metals, softs, grains,
and live stocks. Panel B reports the time-series average of cross-sectional correlations between
the variables introduced above. Panel C reports the cross-sectional average of the
autocorrelations (up to 6 lag months) of traditional basis (TradtBasis), relative basis
(RelatBasis), and residual basis (ResidBasis).




                                                33
             Panel A: Time-series averages of traditional basis, relative basis, and futures returns
                         traditional basis                 relative basis                   futures returns
commodity name mean standard deviation               mean standard deviation           mean standard deviation
Crude Oil           0.38%          22.52%           -1.20%          10.29%             0.64%          9.48%
Heating Oil         0.47%          26.67%            0.70%          15.98%             0.58%          8.55%
Natural Gas       -19.80%          64.14%           -6.51%          51.26%            -0.59%         13.64%
Gold               -4.70%           3.90%           -0.01%           0.64%             0.13%          5.30%
Silver             -5.39%           5.41%           -0.44%           3.43%             0.19%          9.40%
Copper              0.87%          12.49%           -0.48%           5.02%             0.46%          7.60%
Platinum           -1.80%           5.25%            0.31%           5.13%             0.29%          7.39%
Palladium          -0.59%           5.56%            1.36%          15.67%             0.84%          9.00%
Cocoa              -5.80%          10.98%            0.18%           7.19%            -0.12%          8.46%
Coffee             -5.78%          16.35%            0.09%           7.35%             0.00%         10.06%
Orange Juice       -3.77%          16.82%            0.36%          11.24%             0.04%          8.82%
Sugar              -4.39%          25.69%           -4.23%          20.71%             0.00%         11.24%
Lumber            -12.60%          27.60%           -3.94%          21.11%            -0.53%          8.89%
Cotton             -3.10%          25.72%           -0.84%          27.18%             0.15%          7.35%
Soybean Oil        -5.30%          12.01%           -0.49%           6.57%            -0.12%          7.23%
Soybeans           -1.13%          20.72%           -1.93%          16.62%             0.17%          6.72%
Corn               -9.25%          18.52%           -1.67%          16.69%            -0.36%          7.21%
Wheat              -8.11%          18.87%           -3.96%          16.76%            -0.45%          7.57%
Oats               -6.54%          26.41%           -1.25%          18.18%             0.01%          9.58%
Soybean Meal        4.93%          30.04%            1.88%          22.04%             0.67%          7.66%
Rough Rice        -11.66%          20.13%           -3.48%          23.25%            -0.52%          7.58%
Feeder Cattle       1.17%          14.83%            0.50%          12.56%             0.18%         4.31%
Live Cattle         0.27%          21.25%           -0.96%          23.13%             0.28%          4.36%
Lean Hogs         -10.10%          51.46%           -6.27%          56.50%             0.05%          7.79%
average            -4.65%          20.97%           -1.34%          17.27%             0.08%          8.13%



                                                      34
           Panel B: Cross-sectional correlations of main variables
           RelatBasis TradtBasis ResidBasis Momentum BasisMom SHP
RelatBasis    1.00        0.52          0.00         0.04          0.20 0.04
TradtBasis                1.00          0.76         0.39          0.36 0.18
ResidBasis                              1.00         0.44          0.29 0.19
Momentum                                             1.00          0.36 0.31
BasisMom                                                           1.00 0.07
SHP                                                                     1.00



  Panel C: Autocorrelations of relative basis, traditional basis, and residual basis
                         RelatBasis             TradtBasis           ResidBasis
 lag1                       0.34                   0.68                  0.71
 lag2                       0.08                   0.51                  0.56
 lag3                       -0.02                  0.40                  0.45
 lag4                       -0.03                  0.34                  0.38
 lag5                       -0.03                  0.31                  0.34
 lag6                       0.00                   0.30                  0.31




                                         35
                       Table 2: Relative Basis and Inventory Changes

This table examines the relation between various basis measures and commodity inventories
(both the level and change). Specifically, we conduct a Fama-MacBeth regression of relative
basis and residual basis on lagged inventory changes and levels, controlling for lagged basis
measures. Relative basis and residual basis are defined in Table 1. The set of independent
variables includes: InventLvli,t is the normalized inventory level of commodity i in month t;
InventChgi,t is the inventory change for commodity i in month t, calculated as the difference
between InventLvli,t and InventLvli,t-1; InventIncrsi,t (InventDecrsi,t) is the increase-of-inventory
(decrease-of-inventory) measure, which is the inventory change for commodity i in month t if it
is positive (negative) and zero otherwise. The sample period is January 1993 to December 2018,
limited by the availability of commodity inventory data. T-statistics, based on standard errors
with Newey-West adjustments of 12 lags, are reported in parenthesis below the corresponding
coefficients. *, **, and *** indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively.

                                RelatBasisi,t+1                               ResidBasisi,t+1
                     (1)         (2)      (3)               (4)       (5)      (6)     (7)       (8)
 InventChgi,t     -0.024***   -0.029 ***
                                                                     0.002    0.001
                  (-4.76)     (-5.55)                               (0.48)   (0.27)
 InventIncrsi,t                            -0.016          -0.016                      0.000    0.000
                                           (-1.23) (-1.17)                             (-0.01) (-0.04)
 InventDecrsi,t                           -0.032*** -0.038***                          -0.002 -0.005
                                          (-3.10)       (-3.51)                        (-0.19) (-0.59)
                                    ***
 InventLvli,t-1               -0.009                   -0.008***              0.000            -0.001
                              (-3.87)                  (-3.26)               (-0.01)            (-0.55)
                        ***
 RelatBasisi,t    0.349       0.339***    0.355 ***
                                                       0.346***
                  (15.46)     (14.37)     (15.61)      (14.70)
 ResidBasisi,t                                                      0.700*** 0.700*** 0.703*** 0.702***
                                                                    (34.52) (33.72) (34.78) (32.97)
         2
 Adj R             32.2%       31.5%       33.9%           33.4%     46.3% 46.2% 46.8% 46.7%




                                                      36
                 Table 3: Return Predictability of Relative Basis: Baseline Regressions

This table examines the return predictability of relative basis. In Panel A, we conduct the
following monthly Fama-MacBeth cross-sectional regression:
    𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑡𝑡𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡+1 = 𝑎𝑎𝑡𝑡 + 𝑏𝑏1,𝑡𝑡 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 + 𝑏𝑏2,𝑡𝑡 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 ( 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 ) + 𝜆𝜆𝑡𝑡 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 + 𝜀𝜀𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡
where reti,t+1 is the return of the futures contracts for commodity i in month t + 1. The main
explanatory variables are RelatBasisi,t, ResidBasisi,t, and TradtBasisi,t. TradtBasis is the
traditional basis, defined as the log difference of the prices of the first-nearby and second-nearby
futures contracts, scaled by their maturity time difference (annualized). RelatBasis is the
relative basis, defined as the difference between the traditional basis measure and a distant basis
measure from the futures contracts with longer expiration dates (i.e., the second-nearby and
third-nearby contracts). ResidBasis is the residual basis, defined as the sum of intercept and
residual term from a cross-sectional regression of traditional basis (TradtBasis) on relative basis
(RelatBasis). Other control variables include Momentumi,t and BasisMomi,t. Momentum is the
price momentum, which is the cumulative past twelve-month return of the first-nearby futures
contract. BasisMom is the basis momentum, defined as the difference between the two price
momentums from the first-nearby and second-nearby futures contracts. All variables are defined
identically to those in Table 1. In Panel B, we employ the next-quarter commodity futures
returns as the dependent variable and repeat the exercises in Panel A. The sample period is
January 1979 to December 2019. T-statistics, based on standard errors with Newey-West
adjustments of 12 lags, are reported in parenthesis below the corresponding coefficients. *, **,
and *** indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively.

       Panel A: Dependent variable = commodity futures return in the next month
                      (1)       (2)    (3)       (4)       (5)      (6)       (7)        (8)
                          ***                        ***                          **
     RelatBasisi,t 0.019                      0.018                        0.017      0.024***
                    (3.44)                     (2.65)                       (2.53)     (2.85)
     ResidBasisi,t            0.010                      -0.008             -0.011
                              (1.43)                     (-1.06)           (-1.44)
                                           **
     TradtBasisi,t                   0.011                        -0.002               -0.011
                                     (2.16)                       (-0.30)             (-1.44)
                                                     ***       **       **        ***
     Momentumi,t                              0.013      0.012    0.012    0.016      0.016***
                                               (2.68) (2.19) (2.25) (2.95)             (2.95)
                                                      *        **       **        **
     BasisMomi,t                               0.035     0.050    0.048    0.042      0.042**
                                               (1.87) (2.54) (2.54) (2.05)             (2.05)
     Adj R 2
                     2.3%      3.2% 3.3%        9.7%     10.7% 10.4% 12.7% 12.7%




                                                                                  37
    Panel B: Dependent variable = commodity futures return in the next quarter
                 (1)       (2)    (3)    (4)      (5)     (6)        (7)        (8)
                     ***                     ***                         ***
RelatBasisi,t 0.073                   0.063                       0.066      0.064***
               (6.67)                  (5.15)                      (5.07)     (3.75)
                               **
ResidBasisi,t            0.040                   0.010             0.010
                        (2.16)                       (0.59)               (0.56)
                                      ***                           ***
TradtBasisi,t                    0.055                         0.036               0.010
                                  (3.99)                        (2.59)             (0.56)
                                                 *
Momentumi,t                                 0.023    0.016      0.010     0.023    0.023
                                            (1.67)   (1.12)     (0.77)    (1.59)   (1.59)
BasisMomi,t                                 0.084*   0.106**    0.074     0.074    0.074
                                            (1.71)   (2.24)     (1.60)    (1.52)   (1.52)
Adj R   2
                2.6%    3.2%      3.5%      10.8%    11.0%      11.0%     13.8%    13.8%




                                            38
                         Table 4: Calendar-Time Portfolio Returns

This table examines the return predictability of different basis measures using calendar-time
portfolio sorts. The sorting variables include relative basis (RelatBasis), traditional basis
(TradtBasis), and residual basis (ResidBasis), which are defined identically to those in Table 1.
At the end of each month, we construct three equal-weighted commodity futures portfolios
based on the corresponding basis measures. We report the returns of these three portfolios, as
well as the return difference between the portfolios with the highest and lowest ranking
variables (P3-P1), in the next month and one quarter. The sample period is January 1979 to
December 2019. T-statistics, based on standard errors with Newey-West adjustments of 12 lags,
are reported in parenthesis below the corresponding coefficients. *, **, and *** indicate
significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively.

                                        P1          P2     P3            P3-P1
                          Sorted by relative basis (RelatBasis)
              next-month return   -0.22% -0.10% 0.59%                   0.81%***
                                                                         (3.99)
             next-quarter return      -0.89% -0.19% 1.82%               2.71%***
                                                                         (6.64)
                        Sorted by traditional basis (TradtBasis)
              next-month return   -0.22% -0.06% 0.54%            0.75%***
                                                                         (3.30)
             next-quarter return      -1.03% -0.11% 1.86%               2.89%***
                                                                         (5.07)
                          Sorted by residual basis (ResidBasis)
              next-month return    -0.24% 0.08% 0.41%                   0.65%***
                                                                         (2.97)
             next-quarter return      -0.66% -0.07% 1.46%               2.12%***
                                                                         (3.60)




                                               39
                          Table 5: Risk-adjusted Portfolio Returns

This table reports monthly risk-adjusted returns (i.e., alphas) of the long-short portfolio
constructed from different basis measures. Specifically, we regress monthly long-short portfolio
returns constructed from a basis measure on the market factor, the price momentum factor, the
basis momentum factor, and other basis measures’ long-short portfolio returns. RelatBasisRett,
TradtBasisRett, and ResidBasisRett are the long-short portfolio returns constructed from
relative basis, traditional basis, and residual basis, respectively. The market factor MKTRett is
the equal-weighted average return of all commodities in our sample. MomRett and
BasisMomRett are the returns of the price momentum and basis momentum factor portfolios.
All portfolio returns are in percentage units. The sample period is January 1979 to December
2019. T-statistics are reported in parenthesis below the corresponding coefficients. *, **, and ***
indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively.

                              RelatBasisRett               TradtBasisRett       ResidBasisRett
                           (1)        (2)        (3)         (4)     (5)          (6)     (7)
                               ***        ***
 Intercept (alpha)      0.685      0.686      0.633***     0.172   -0.021       0.056    0.063
                         (3.48)     (3.48)     (3.35)      (0.90) (-0.12)       (0.31) (0.35)
 RelatBasisRett                                                   0.282***              -0.010
                                                                   (6.74)               (-0.25)
 ResidBasisRett                    -0.012
                                   (-0.25)
 TradtBasisRett                               0.303***
                                               (6.74)
 MKTRett                 0.099*   0.099*       0.104*      -0.017 -0.045 -0.031 -0.030
                         (1.74)   (1.73)       (1.92)     (-0.32) (-0.86) (-0.59) (-0.57)
 MomRett                -0.090 -0.086**
                              **
                                             -0.179***    0.294*** 0.319*** 0.388*** 0.387***
                        (-2.40) (-2.02)       (-4.66)      (8.07)   (9.10) (11.25) (11.15)
 BasisMomRett           0.196*** 0.200***     0.091**     0.346*** 0.290*** 0.279*** 0.282***
                         (4.54)   (4.40)       (2.07)      (8.28)   (7.12) (7.08) (6.98)
 Adj R2                   4.5%      4.3%      12.5%        23.8%     30.2%      29.0%     29.0%




                                                40
                 Table 6: Return Predictability of Relative Basis for Financial Futures

This table examines the return predictability of relative basis for a sample of 19 financial futures.
In Panel A, we conduct the following monthly Fama-MacBeth cross-sectional regression:
    𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑡𝑡𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡+1 = 𝑎𝑎𝑡𝑡 + 𝑏𝑏1,𝑡𝑡 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 + 𝑏𝑏2,𝑡𝑡 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 ( 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 ) + 𝜆𝜆𝑡𝑡 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 + 𝜀𝜀𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡
where reti,t+1 is the return for financial futures i in month t + 1. The main explanatory variables
are relative basis (RelatBasisi,t), residual basis (ResidBasisi,t), and traditional basis
(TradtBasisi,t). Other control variables include the price momentum (Momentumi,t) and basis
momentum (BasisMomi,t). All variables are defined identically to those in Table 3. In Panel B,
we use the next-quarter financial futures returns as the dependent variable and repeat the
exercises in Panel A. The sample period is January 1993 to December 2019. T-statistics, based
on standard errors with Newey-West adjustments of 12 lags, are reported in parenthesis below
the corresponding coefficients. *, **, and *** indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels,
respectively.

        Panel A: Dependent variable = financial futures return in the next month
                   (1)     (2)        (3)        (4)        (5)        (6)        (7)        (8)
   RelatBasisi,t 0.013                         0.067                            0.099      0.013
                 (0.11)                        (0.65)                           (1.00) (0.12)
                               ***                              ***
   ResidBasisi,t        0.120                            0.082                 0.083***
                         (4.55)                           (2.78)                (2.92)
                                          ***                              ***
   TradtBasisi,t                   0.100                            0.078                 0.083***
                                    (3.41)                           (2.60)                (2.92)
                                                     ***        **         **         ***
   Momentumi,t                                0.030      0.024      0.023      0.027      0.027***
                                               (3.85) (2.50)         (2.48) (3.11) (3.11)
                                                     **          *
   BasisMomi,t                                0.667       0.433      0.367      0.466* 0.466*
                                               (2.40) (1.96)         (1.52) (1.78) (1.78)
   Adj R 2
                  2.1%    3.8%       4.0%      23.0% 27.1% 28.4% 27.8% 27.8%




                                                                                 41
     Panel B: Dependent variable = financial futures return in the next quarter
                (1)     (2)        (3)        (4)        (5)        (6)        (7)        (8)
RelatBasisi,t 0.016                         -0.148                           -0.028 -0.111
              (0.06)                       (-0.50)                          (-0.09) (-0.34)
                            ***                              **
ResidBasisi,t        0.343                            0.205                 0.208***
                      (4.93)                           (2.57)                (2.68)
                                       ***                              ***
TradtBasisi,t                   0.326                            0.202                 0.208***
                                 (4.47)                           (2.80)                (2.68)
                                                  ***        ***        ***        ***
Momentumi,t                                0.097      0.088      0.091      0.100      0.100***
                                            (5.16) (4.12)         (4.26) (4.93) (4.93)
                                                  ***        ***
BasisMomi,t                                1.319      1.099      1.038** 0.967** 0.967**
                                            (2.71) (2.61)         (2.38) (2.03) (2.03)
Adj R2         2.1%    4.7%       5.0%      24.2% 28.4% 28.9% 30.9% 30.9%




                                              42
                                    Table 7: Asymmetry in Return Predictability of
                                         Positive and Negative Relative Basis

This table examines the asymmetry in the return predictability of positive and negative relative
basis. In Panel A, we conduct the following monthly Fama-MacBeth cross-sectional regression:
                  𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑡𝑡𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡+1 = 𝑎𝑎𝑡𝑡 + 𝑏𝑏1,𝑡𝑡 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑠𝑠_𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 + 𝑏𝑏2,𝑡𝑡 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅_𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡
                               +𝑏𝑏3,𝑡𝑡 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 ( 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 ) + 𝜆𝜆𝑡𝑡 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 + 𝜀𝜀𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡
where reti,t+1 is the futures return of commodity i in month t + 1. The main explanatory
variables are positive relative basis (RelatBasis_posi,t) and negative relative basis
(RelatBasis_negi,t). We define RelatBasis_posi,t (RelatBasis_negi,t) as the relative basis of
commodity i in month t if it is positive (negative) and zero otherwise. Other control variables
include ResidBasisi,t (or TradtBasisi,t), Momentumi,t, and BasisMomi,t. All control variables are
defined identically to those in Table 3. In Panel B, we use the next-quarter commodity futures
returns as the dependent variables and repeat the exercises in Panel A. The sample period is
January 1979 to December 2019. T-statistics, based on standard errors with Newey-West
adjustments of 12 lags, are reported in parenthesis below the corresponding coefficients. *, **,
and *** indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively.

        Panel A: Dependent variable = commodity futures return in the next month
                                    (1)        (2)        (3)        (4)
                                        ***        ***        ***
               RelatBasis_posi,t 0.045      0.047      0.048      0.060***
                                  (2.87)     (2.63)     (2.68)     (3.47)
               RelatBasis_negi,t  0.016      0.007      0.006      0.019
                                                            (1.17)                 (0.49)              (0.45)                (1.21)
                     ResidBasisi,t                                                                     -0.012
                                                                                                       (-1.42)
                     TradtBasisi,t                                                                                           -0.012
                                                                                                                             (-1.42)
                                                                                           ***                  ***
                     Momentumi,t                                                 0.012                0.016                  0.016***
                                                                                   (2.61)              (2.98)                (2.98)
                     BasisMomi,t                                                   0.039*              0.046**               0.046**
                                                                                   (1.93)              (2.22)                (2.22)
                     Adj R      2
                                                             4.3%                  11.8%               14.5%                 14.5%




                                                                              43
Panel B: Dependent variable = commodity futures return in the next quarter
                             (1)       (2)       (3)         (4)
                                 ***       **        ***
       RelatBasis_posi,t 0.110       0.103    0.115       0.127***
                           (2.69)    (2.49)    (2.84)      (3.23)
       RelatBasis_negi,t   0.041      0.024     0.033       0.045
                           (1.48)    (0.84)    (1.04)      (1.30)
       ResidBasisi,t                           -0.001
                                               (-0.06)
       TradtBasisi,t                                       -0.001
                                                           (-0.06)
                                            *         *
       Momentumi,t                   0.021     0.027       0.027*
                                     (1.65)    (1.91)      (1.91)
       BasisMomi,t                    0.080     0.068       0.068
                                     (1.61)    (1.36)      (1.36)
             2
       Adj R                4.7%     12.5%     15.3%       15.3%




                                    44
           Table 8: Return Predictability of Relative Basis in the Business Cycle

This table re-estimates the baseline regression (Table 3) conditional on the business cycle. We
divide the full sample into two subsamples: economic expansion and contraction periods. These
periods are proxied by the Philadelphia Fed Aruoba-Diebold-Scotti Business Conditions Index
(ADS Index) in Panel A and the Chicago Fed National Activity Index (CFNAI Index) in Panel
B. We then conduct Fama-MacBeth regressions separately for the expansion and contraction
periods. In both panels, columns (1) and (3) include ResidBasis, Momentum, and BasisMom as
control variables, and columns (2) and (4) include TradtBasis, Momentum, and BasisMom as
control variables. The sample period is January 1979 to December 2019. T-statistics, based on
standard errors with Newey-West adjustments of 12 lags, are reported in parenthesis below the
corresponding coefficients. *, **, and *** indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels,
respectively.

                    Panel A: Business cycles proxied by the ADS Index
                           (1)               (2)               (3)                  (4)
                                              Expansion periods
                               ***
RelatBasisi,t           0.037             0.042***
                         (4.03)            (3.66)
RelatBasis_posi,t                                            0.080**             0.090***
                                                             (2.39)               (2.61)
RelatBasis_negi,t                                             0.014               0.025
                                                             (0.81)               (1.34)
                      ResidBasis,       TradtBasis,       ResidBasis,          TradtBasis,
Controls              Momentum,        Momentum,          Momentum,            Momentum,
                      BasisMom          BasisMom           BasisMom            BasisMom
Adj R2                   12.8%             12.8%             15.2%                15.2%
                                              Contraction periods
RelatBasisi,t            -0.003            0.007
                        (-0.32)            (0.64)
RelatBasis_posi,t                                             0.016               0.030
                                                             (0.79)              (1.57)
RelatBasis_negi,t                                            -0.002               0.013
                                                             (-0.08)             (0.56)
                      ResidBasis,       TradtBasis,       ResidBasis,          TradtBasis,
Controls              Momentum,        Momentum,          Momentum,            Momentum,
                      BasisMom          BasisMom           BasisMom            BasisMom
Adj R2                   12.5%             12.5%             13.8%               13.8%




                                              45
              Panel B: Business cycles proxied by CFNAI Index
                       (1)              (2)             (3)          (4)
                                        Expansion periods
                           ***
RelatBasisi,t       0.026            0.029**
                     (2.78)           (2.48)
RelatBasis_posi,t                                    0.067**       0.073***
                                                      (2.57)        (2.93)
RelatBasis_negi,t                                     0.012         0.017
                                                      (0.61)        (0.81)
                  ResidBasis,     TradtBasis,      ResidBasis,   TradtBasis,
Controls          Momentum,       Momentum,        Momentum,     Momentum,
                   BasisMom        BasisMom        BasisMom      BasisMom
      2
Adj R                13.3%            13.3%           14.9%         14.9%
                                       Contraction periods
RelatBasisi,t        0.009            0.019
                     (0.90)           (1.56)
RelatBasis_posi,t                                     0.029        0.048*
                                                      (1.12)       (1.85)
RelatBasis_negi,t                                     0.001         0.021
                                                      (0.06)       (0.93)
                  ResidBasis,     TradtBasis,      ResidBasis,   TradtBasis,
Controls          Momentum,       Momentum,        Momentum,     Momentum,
                   BasisMom        BasisMom        BasisMom      BasisMom
      2
Adj R                12.0%            12.0%           14.1%        14.1%




                                     46
                  Table 9: The Impact of Spread Position on the Return Predictability
                                           of Relative Basis

This table shows the impact of non-commercial spread position on the return predictability of
relative basis. In the first two columns, we conduct the following monthly Fama-MacBeth cross-
sectional regression:
   𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑡𝑡𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡+1 = 𝑎𝑎𝑡𝑡 + 𝑏𝑏1,𝑡𝑡 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 + 𝑏𝑏2,𝑡𝑡 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 ∗ 𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 +𝑏𝑏3,𝑡𝑡 𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡
                   + 𝜆𝜆𝑡𝑡 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 + 𝜀𝜀𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡
where reti,t+1 is the return of the futures contracts for commodity i in month t + 1. The main
explanatory variables are RelatBasisi,t, SpreadPositioni,t, and the interaction term of both
variables. RelatBasis is the relative basis, defined as the difference between the traditional basis
measure and a distant basis measure from the futures contracts with longer expiration dates (i.e.,
the second-nearby and third-nearby contracts). SpreadPositioni,t, is defined as the non-
commercial traders’ aggregate spread position scaled by the open interest for each commodity i
in a specific month t. Other control variables include ResidBasisi,t, Momentumi,t, and
BasisMomi,t. We employ the next-quarter commodity futures returns as the dependent variable
in the next two columns and repeat the exercises. The sample period is January 1993 to
December 2019. T-statistics, based on standard errors with Newey-West adjustments of 12 lags,
are reported in parenthesis below the corresponding coefficients. *, **, and *** indicate
significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively.

                                                                        Next month               Next quarter
  Dependent variable                                             commodity futures return commodity futures return
                                                                     (1)          (2)          (3)           (4)
                                                                         **           **           ***
  RelatBasisi,t                                                    0.018        0.050       0.063          0.119**
                                                                   (2.41)       (2.06)       (4.13)        (2.28)
                                                                                       **
  RelatBasisi,t * SpreadPositioni,t                                            -0.541                     -0.903**
                                                                                (-2.36)                   (-2.00)
  SpreadPositioni,t                                                             -0.032                     -0.102
                                                                                (-1.32)                   (-1.62)
  ResidBasisi,t                                                    -0.009       -0.006       0.007          0.007
                                                                   (-0.91)      (-0.49)      (0.37)        (0.27)
                                                                         *             *
  Momentumi,t                                                      0.011        0.010        0.018          0.021
                                                                   (1.96)       (1.82)       (1.33)        (1.61)
  BasisMomi,t                                                      0.057**      0.057**      0.091          0.083
                                                                   (2.29)       (2.18)       (1.59)        (1.42)
  Adj R2                                                           12.6%        16.4%        12.6%         17.0%




                                                                                   47
             Table 10: Return Predictability of Relative Basis Controlling for
                              Smoothed Hedging Pressure

This table examines the return predictability of relative basis after controlling for smoothed
hedging pressure. We repeat the Fama-MacBeth exercises of Table 3 with either the next-month
return (Panel A) or the next-quarter return (Panel B) as the dependent variable; we further
control for smoothed hedging pressure (SHP) on the righthand side. SHP is defined as the past
one-year moving average of the net short position (short minus long positions) of commercial
traders (as defined by the CFTC COT dataset), scaled by the commodity’s most recent open
interest. All other variables are defined identically to those in Table 3. The sample period is
January 1993 to December 2019, limited by the availability of the COT data. T-statistics, based
on standard errors with Newey-West adjustments of 12 lags, are reported in parenthesis below
the corresponding coefficients. *, **, and *** indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels,
respectively.

     Panel A: Dependent variable = commodity futures return in the next month
                    (1)        (2)       (3)        (4)        (5)         (6)
                                                        **         **
   RelatBasisi,t 0.022  ***
                                      0.020  ***
                                                 0.017       0.016      0.023**
                  (3.45)               (3.17)     (2.24)     (2.21)      (2.31)
   SHPi,t                   0.023***  0.021***   0.016***   0.016***    0.016***
                             (4.36)    (4.09)     (2.84)     (2.86)      (2.86)
   ResidBasisi,t                                             -0.013
                                                             (-1.32)
   TradtBasisi,t                                                         -0.013
                                                                        (-1.32)
   Momentumi,t                                    0.006       0.010      0.010
                                                  (1.13)     (1.58)      (1.58)
   BasisMomi,t                                   0.049**     0.062**    0.062**
                                                  (2.28)     (2.47)      (2.47)
   Adj R2          3.3%       1.2%      4.4%      10.3%      13.3%       13.3%
     Panel B: Dependent variable = commodity futures return in the next quarter
                    (1)        (2)        (3)        (4)        (5)         (6)
                                                         ***        ***
   RelatBasisi,t 0.075  ***
                                       0.070  ***
                                                  0.055      0.057       0.062***
                  (5.65)                (5.43)     (3.63)     (3.80)      (3.26)
                                                         ***        ***
   SHPi,t                   0.066  ***
                                       0.059  ***
                                                  0.046      0.045       0.045***
                             (4.17)     (3.85)     (2.83)     (2.82)      (2.82)
   ResidBasisi,t                                              -0.002
                                                             (-0.08)
   TradtBasisi,t                                                          -0.002
                                                                         (-0.08)
   Momentumi,t                                     0.011       0.013      0.013
                                                   (0.74)     (0.86)      (0.86)
   BasisMomi,t                                    0.115**     0.105*      0.105*
                                                   (2.03)     (1.87)      (1.87)
          2
   Adj R           3.2%       2.3%       5.4%      11.9%      14.5%       14.5%


                                                48
          Online Appendix to



Relative Basis and the Expected Returns of
           Commodity Futures




                   1
            Appendix Table A1: Relative Basis and Inventory Changes: Robustness Tests

    This table examines the relation between various basis measures and commodity inventories.
    Specifically, we conduct a Fama-MacBeth regression of relative basis and residual basis on past
    inventory changes and levels. The definitions of relative basis and residual basis are identical to
    those in Table 1. Other control variables are defined as follows. InventLvli,t is the normalized
    inventory level of commodity i in month t. 𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝑙𝑙𝑖𝑖, 𝑡𝑡−1:𝑡𝑡−2 is the average of InventLvli,t-1 and
    InventLvli,t-2. 𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼ℎℎ𝑔𝑔𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡, 𝑡𝑡−1:𝑡𝑡−2 is the inventory change for commodity i in the past months,
    calculated as the difference between InventLvli,t and 𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝑙𝑙𝑖𝑖, 𝑡𝑡−1:𝑡𝑡−2 . 𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡, 𝑡𝑡−1:𝑡𝑡−2
    ( 𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡, 𝑡𝑡−1:𝑡𝑡−2 ) is the increase-of-inventory (decrease-of-inventory), defined as the
    inventory change for commodity i in the past months if it is positive (negative) and zero
    otherwise. The sample period is January 1993 to December 2018, limited by the availability of
    commodity inventory data. T-statistics, based on standard errors with Newey-West adjustments
    of 12 lags, are reported in parenthesis below the corresponding coefficients. *, **, and ***
    indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively.

                                             Relative Basis                                        Residual Basis
                               (1)           (2)       (3)                (4)           (5)         (6)      (7)               (8)
                                     ***           ***
                            -0.021         -0.025                                     0.000        0.000
InventChgi,t,t-1:t-2         (-5.54)       (-5.69)                                    (0.07)      (-0.07)
                                                          0.009         0.008                                   -0.010       -0.010
InventIncrsi,t,t-1:t-2                                    (1.07)    (0.90)                                     (-1.55)      (-1.61)
                                                               ***
                                                         -0.048    -0.058***                                    0.006        0.005
InventDecrsi,t,t-1:t-2                                   (-5.83)       (-6.39)                                  (1.13)       (0.93)
                                                   ***
                                           -0.009                     -0.009***                    0.000                     -0.001
InventLvli,t-1:t-2                         (-3.63)                     (-3.50)                    (-0.04)                   (-0.34)
RelatBasisi,t               0.342***       0.333***      0.347***      0.337***
                             (15.26)       (14.18)       (15.17)       (14.36)
ResidBasisi,t                                                                        0.702*** 0.700*** 0.708*** 0.706***
                                                                                     (35.01) (33.74)           (37.07) (35.82)
        2
Adj R                        31.4%          30.9%         33.1%         32.8%         46.3% 46.2%               46.4% 46.4%




                                                                  2
                         Appendix Table A2: Correlations of Factor Returns

      This table reports the return correlations of various commodity factors. RelatBasisRet,
      TradtBasisRet, and ResidBasisRet are the returns of the long-short portfolios constructed from
      relative basis, traditional basis, and residual basis, respectively. The market factor MKTRet is
      calculated as the equal-weighted average return of all commodities in our sample. MomRet and
      BasisMomRet are the returns of the price momentum and basis momentum factor portfolios.
      The sample period is January 1979 to December 2019.

                RelatBasisRet ResidBasisRet TradtBasisRet             MKTRet       MomRet BasisMomRet
RelatBasisRet        1.00          0.01         0.29                   0.07         -0.07      0.19
ResidBasisRet                      1.00         0.78                   0.04          0.47      0.33
TradtBasisRet                                            1.00           0.04         0.37           0.38
MKTRet                                                                  1.00         0.13           0.03
MomRet                                                                               1.00           0.14
BasisMomRet                                                                                         1.00




                                                     3
                  Appendix Table A3: Return Predictability in Subsamples

This table examines the return predictability of relative basis in two subperiods: 1979-1999 and
2000-2019. The regression specifications are similar to those in Table 3, with the next-month
return (Panel A) or next-quarter return (Panel B) as the dependent variable. T-statistics, based
on standard errors with Newey-West adjustments of 12 lags, are reported in parenthesis below
the corresponding coefficients. *, **, and *** indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels,
respectively.

      Panel A: Next-month commodity futures return as the dependent variable
                          1979-1999                        2000-2019
                        *         *         **          *
    RelatBasisi,t 0.018     0.017     0.028      0.017       0.017*    0.020*
                  (1.87)    (1.78)    (2.51)     (1.89)      (1.96)    (1.92)
                                  **
    ResidBasisi,t          -0.023                            0.001
                           (-2.06)                           (0.10)
                                             **
    TradtBasisi,t                    -0.023                             0.001
                                      (-2.06)                          (0.10)
                       **        ***       ***
    Momentumi,t 0.019      0.026     0.026        0.007      0.006      0.006
                  (2.59)    (3.18)    (3.18)     (1.16)      (0.95)    (0.95)
                                                       **         **
    BasisMomi,t   0.017     0.022      0.022     0.055      0.063      0.063**
                  (0.65)    (0.83)    (0.83)     (2.07)      (2.09)    (2.09)
    Adj R 2
                   9.6%     12.7%     12.7%       9.8%      12.7%      12.7%

      Panel B: Next-quarter commodity futures return as the dependent variable
                            1979-1999                        2000-2019
                       ***         ***       **         ***
    RelatBasisi,t 0.063      0.064     0.065      0.063       0.067***  0.063***
                      (3.75)      (3.51)       (2.44)       (3.53)      (3.67)       (3.02)
    ResidBasisi,t                 -0.002                                0.023
                                  (-0.06)                               (1.00)
    TradtBasisi,t                              -0.002                                0.023
                                               (-0.06)                               (1.00)
    Momentumi,t       0.024       0.027         0.027       0.021       0.018        0.018
                      (1.09)      (1.21)       (1.21)       (1.46)      (1.12)       (1.12)
    BasisMomi,t       0.048       0.037         0.037       0.122*      0.113*       0.113*
                      (0.70)      (0.53)       (0.53)       (1.82)      (1.73)       (1.73)
    Adj R2            10.8%       14.3%        14.3%        10.8%       13.3%        13.3%




                                                4
             Appendix Table A4: Alternative Constructions of Relative Basis

This table examines the return predictability of relative basis using alternative constructions.
Specifically, we adjust the maturities of the first, second, and third nearby contracts of crude oil,
heating oil, and natural gas, so that relative basis of all commodities is constructed with the
same time intervals. The regression specifications are similar to those in Table 3, with the next-
month return (Panel A) or next-quarter return (Panel B) as the dependent variable. The sample
period is January 1979 to December 2019. T-statistics, based on standard errors with Newey-
West adjustments of 12 lags, are reported in parenthesis below the corresponding coefficients. *,
**, and *** indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively.

       Panel A: Next-month commodity futures return as the dependent variable
                    (1)       (2)    (3)      (4)       (5)       (6)        (7)        (8)
                        ***                       ***                            ***
   RelatBasisi,t 0.018                     0.018                          0.017      0.022***
                  (3.06)                    (2.85)                         (2.63)     (2.81)
   ResidBasisi,t            0.010                     -0.009               -0.013
                            (1.34)                    (-1.09)             (-1.55)
                                         *
   TradtBasisi,t                   0.009                        -0.007                -0.013
                                   (1.68)                      (-0.99)               (-1.55)
   Momentumi,t                             0.013*** 0.013** 0.014*** 0.017*** 0.017***
                                            (2.73) (2.38) (2.61) (3.27)               (3.27)
                                                  **        **        ***        **
   BasisMomi,t                             0.039      0.044    0.053      0.039      0.039**
                                            (2.05) (2.39) (2.82) (2.03)               (2.03)
         2
   Adj R           2.5%      3.1% 3.4%       9.7%     10.3% 10.6% 12.5% 12.5%

      Panel B: Next-quarter commodity futures return as the dependent variable
                   (1)     (2)      (3)        (4)     (5)    (6)       (7)      (8)
  RelatBasisi,t 0.069***                    0.064***                 0.064*** 0.068***
                 (5.75)                      (5.07)                   (4.93) (3.89)
                               *
  ResidBasisi,t          0.032                       0.001            0.000
                         (1.66)                      (0.06)           (0.01)
                                        ***                       **
  TradtBasisi,t                  0.049                      0.028              0.000
                                  (3.56)                    (1.98)             (0.01)
                                                   *                        **
  Momentumi,t                                0.024   0.021 0.015 0.029         0.029
                                             (1.78) (1.49) (1.07) (2.07) (2.07)
  BasisMomi,t                                0.074 0.103** 0.087* 0.062        0.062
                                             (1.50) (2.24) (1.91) (1.30) (1.30)
        2
  Adj R           2.9%    3.4%     3.5%      11.0% 11.3% 11.1% 14.2% 14.2%




                                                 5
             Appendix Table A5: Return Predictability in Panel Regressions

This table conducts a panel regression with two-way fixed effects to examine the return
predictability of different basis measures. The dependent and independent variables are the
same as those in Table 3. The panel regression controls for commodity and time fixed effects.
The sample period is January 1979 to December 2019. T-statistics, based on standard errors
clustered by both commodity and time, are reported in parentheses below the coefficients. *, **,
and *** indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively.

       Panel A: Next-month commodity futures return as the dependent variable
                  (1)      (2)    (3)     (4)        (5)        (6)        (7)        (8)
                      **                      **
  RelatBasisi,t 0.012                  0.010                             0.010 0.021***
                                                                                *


                (2.58)                  (2.09)                           (2.01)     (3.28)
  ResidBasisi,t          0.000                     -0.008                -0.007
                         (0.01)                   (-1.05)               (-0.94)
  TradtBasisi,t                 0.001                         -0.006               -0.018**
                                (0.15)                       (-1.21)               (-2.68)
  Momentumi,t                           0.005      0.006      0.006      0.006      0.009*
                                        (1.12)     (1.27) (1.26)         (1.31)     (1.87)
                                              ***        ***        ***        ***
  BasisMomi,t                          0.037      0.046      0.048      0.040      0.045***
                                        (3.15)     (4.14) (4.31)         (3.63)     (4.02)
  fixed effects  Yes      Yes    Yes     Yes        Yes        Yes        Yes        Yes
         2
  Adj R         12.8% 12.7% 12.7% 12.9% 12.8% 12.8% 12.9% 13.0%

      Panel B: Next-quarter commodity futures return as the dependent variable
                  (1)       (2)     (3)        (4)       (5)     (6)       (7)       (8)
                      ***                          ***                         ***
 RelatBasisi,t 0.056                        0.049                       0.049      0.049**
                (3.99)                       (3.82)                      (3.97)    (2.76)
 ResidBasisi,t            0.022                        0.011             0.015
                          (1.42)                       (0.64)            (0.86)
                                        ***                          **
 TradtBasisi,t                   0.035                        0.028                -0.000
                                  (3.51)                       (2.79)              (-0.00)
 Momentumi,t                                 0.004     -0.000 -0.004     0.001      0.004
                                             (0.37) (-0.02) (-0.38) (0.08)         (0.33)
 BasisMomi,t                                0.089*** 0.114*** 0.096*** 0.084*** 0.089***
                                             (3.51)    (4.81) (4.13) (3.60)        (3.82)
 fixed effects   Yes       Yes     Yes        Yes       Yes     Yes       Yes        Yes
        2
 Adj R          14.7% 14.1% 14.4% 14.9% 14.4% 14.6% 14.9% 14.9%



                                               6
                                  Appendix Table A6: Summary Statistics of Financial Futures

This table reports the time-series average of traditional basis, relative basis, and futures returns for a sample of 19 financial futures.
The table reports the mean and standard deviation of each variable. The sample period is January 1993 to December 2019.

                                                traditional basis              relative basis                  futures returns
   Financial Futures
                                           mean     standard deviation    mean     Standard deviation     mean     standard deviation
   Dow Jones Industrial Mini-Sized         0.66%          1.79%           0.02%          0.38%            0.68%          3.77%
   NASDAQ 100 Index, E-mini               -1.10%          1.95%           0.11%          0.30%            0.52%          6.54%
   NIKKEI 225 Index                       -0.45%          1.35%          -0.20%          1.37%            0.22%          5.87%
   S&P 500 Index, E-mini                   0.86%          1.27%           0.07%          0.19%            0.67%          4.32%
   S&P 500 Index                          -1.01%          2.36%           0.08%          0.24%            0.62%          4.12%
   Federal Funds / 30-day                  0.24%          1.26%          -0.02%          0.87%            0.02%          0.13%
   Treasury Note, U.S., 2-year             0.89%          0.71%           0.26%          0.99%            0.08%          0.32%
   Treasury Note, U.S., 5-year             1.81%          1.55%           0.86%          1.75%            0.19%          1.01%
   Treasury Note, U.S., 10-year            2.83%          1.84%           0.50%          1.46%            0.34%          1.70%
   Treasury Bonds, U.S., 30-year           2.36%          5.43%           0.22%          6.40%            0.38%          2.78%
   Australian Dollar / U.S. Dollar         1.69%          1.63%           0.03%          0.20%            0.21%          3.34%
   British Pound / U.S. Dollar             0.58%          1.23%           0.01%          0.18%            0.04%          2.42%
   Canadian Dollar / U.S. Dollar           0.07%          0.98%          -0.01%          0.18%            0.03%          2.34%
   Eurodollar, 3-month                     0.37%          0.90%          -0.11%          0.59%            0.03%          0.19%
   Euro FX                                -0.68%          1.38%           0.04%          0.19%           -0.01%          2.81%
   Japanese Yen / U.S. Dollar             -2.62%          1.97%           0.07%          0.26%           -0.13%          3.09%
   New Zealand Dollar / U.S. Dollar        2.05%          1.60%           0.00%          0.59%            0.24%          3.72%
   U.S. Dollar Index                      -0.59%          1.51%          -0.05%          0.31%           -0.02%          2.30%
   Swiss Franc / U.S. Dollar              -1.86%          1.49%           0.04%          0.25%            0.02%          3.00%
   average                                 0.32%          1.69%           0.10%          0.88%            0.22%          2.83%




                                                                    7
               Appendix Table A7: Portfolio Analyses of Financial Futures

This table examines the return predictability of different basis measures for financial futures
using calendar-time portfolio sorts. Sorting variables include relative basis (RelatBasis),
traditional basis (TradtBasis), and residual basis (ResidBasis). At the end of each month, we
construct three equal-weighted portfolios based on the corresponding basis measure. We then
report the returns of these three portfolios, as well as the return difference between the
portfolios with the highest and lowest ranking variable (P3-P1), in the next month or one
quarter. The sample period is January 1993 to December 2019. T-statistics, based on standard
errors with Newey-West adjustments of 12 lags, are reported in parenthesis below the
corresponding coefficients. *, **, and *** indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels,
respectively.

                                   P1         P2         P3             P3-P1
                           Sorted by relative basis (RelatBasis)
         next-month return       0.17%      0.10%      0.24%            0.07%
                                                                        (0.55)
         next-quarter return     0.51%      0.32%      0.68%            0.17%
                                                                        (0.63)
                          Sorted by traditional basis (TradtBasis)
         next-month return       -0.06%     0.19%      0.38%           0.44%***
                                                                        (3.11)
         next-quarter return     -0.26%     0.58%      1.16%           1.42%***
                                                                        (3.78)
                           Sorted by residual basis (ResidBasis)
         next-month return       -0.11%     0.18%      0.40%           0.51%***
                                                                        (4.70)
         next-quarter return     -0.29%     0.59%      1.12%           1.41%***
                                                                        (4.64)




                                              8
        Appendix Table A8: Return Predictability of Standardized Relative Basis

This table examines the return predictability based on standardized basis measures. In Panel A,
we conduct the following monthly Fama-MacBeth cross-sectional regression:
                                                          standz
        𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑡𝑡𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡+1 = 𝑎𝑎𝑡𝑡 + 𝑏𝑏1,𝑡𝑡 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅i,t
                                                        standz                            standz                          standz
                            +𝑏𝑏2,𝑡𝑡 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅i,t    � 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇i,t    � + 𝜆𝜆𝑡𝑡 𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶i,t    + 𝜀𝜀𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡
where reti,t+1 is the futures return for futures i in month t + 1. The main explanatory variables
are the standardized RelatBasisstandzi,t, ResidBasisstandzi,t, and TradtBasisstandzi,t. Other control
variables include standardized Momentumstandzi,t and standardized BasisMomstandzi,t. In each
month, we standardize all variables by subtracting their cross-sectional means and then dividing
by their cross-sectional standard deviations. In each panel, the first three columns report
regression results for commodity futures and the next three columns report results for financial
futures. In Panel B, we use the next-quarter return as the dependent variable and repeat the
exercises in Panel A. T-statistics, based on standard errors with Newey-West adjustments of 12
lags, are reported in parenthesis below the corresponding coefficients. *, **, and *** indicate
significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively.

                 Panel A: Next-month return as the dependent variable
                                  commodity futures                    financial futures
                                (1)         (2)         (3)        (4)         (5)         (6)
     RelatBasisstandzi,t 0.0032*** 0.0032*** 0.0042*** -0.0002 -0.0000 -0.0003
                              (3.08)      (2.98)      (2.65)     (-0.44)    (-0.01)     (-0.42)
     ResidBasisstandzi,t                -0.0021*                           0.0014***
                                         (-1.92)                             (3.02)
     TradtBasisstandzi,t                             -0.0026                           0.0013**
                                                     (-1.63)                             (2.16)
                 standz             ***         ***         ***        ***         ***
     Momentum            i,t 0.0035     0.0046      0.0046      0.0029     0.0026      0.0026***
                              (2.74)      (3.13)      (3.13)     (3.26)      (2.82)      (2.82)
               standz                            *           *         ***          *
     BasisMom         i,t     0.0019     0.0023      0.0023 0.0023          0.0013      0.0013*
                              (1.63)      (1.90)      (1.90)     (3.45)      (1.78)      (1.78)
           2
     Adj R                     9.7%      12.7%        12.7%      23.0%      27.8%       27.8%

                Panel B: Next-quarter return as the dependent variable
                              commodity futures               financial futures
                            (1)       (2)       (3)       (4)        (5)        (6)
     RelatBasisstandzi,t 0.0108*** 0.0112*** 0.0103*** -0.0003     0.0001     0.0002
                          (5.45)    (5.52)    (3.35)   (-0.20)     (0.09)     (0.15)
     ResidBasisstandzi,t            0.0016                        0.0037***
                                    (0.62)                         (2.79)
     TradtBasisstandzi,t                      0.0016                         0.0035**
                                              (0.46)                          (2.19)
     Momentumstandzi,t 0.0057       0.0056    0.0056 0.0084*** 0.0087*** 0.0087***
                          (1.55)    (1.42)    (1.42)    (3.57)     (3.62)     (3.62)
     BasisMomstandzi,t    0.0049    0.0043    0.0043 0.0048** 0.0025          0.0025
                          (1.56)    (1.39)    (1.39)    (2.52)     (1.16)     (1.16)
     Adj R2               10.8%     13.8%     13.8%     24.2%      30.9%      30.9%

                                                            9
                    Appendix Table A9: Risk-adjusted Portfolio Returns:
                               Excluding Precious Metals

This table reports monthly risk-adjusted returns (i.e., alphas) of the long-short portfolio based
on different basis measures, after excluding commodities in the precious metals category (Gold,
Silver, Platinum, Palladium, and Copper). Specifically, we regress monthly long-short portfolio
returns constructed from a basis measure on the market factor, the price momentum factor, the
basis momentum factor, and other basis measures’ long-short portfolio returns. RelatBasisRett,
TradtBasisRett, and ResidBasisRett are the long-short portfolio returns constructed from
relative basis, traditional basis, and residual basis, respectively. The market factor MKTRett is
the equal-weighted average return of all commodities in our sample. MomRett and
BasisMomRett are the returns of the price momentum and basis momentum factor portfolios.
All portfolio returns are in percentage units. The sample period is January 1979 to December
2019. T-statistics are reported in parenthesis below the corresponding coefficients. *, **, and ***
indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively.

                             RelatBasisRett               TradtBasisRett         ResidBasisRett
                          (1)       (2)        (3)          (4)     (5)           (6)      (7)
                              ***       ***
Intercept (alpha)      0.719      0.705     0.702***      0.070   -0.082        -0.167 -0.120
                        (3.14) (3.08)        (3.14)       (0.33) (-0.39)        (-0.80) (-0.57)
RelatBasisRett                                                   0.211***                -0.066
                                                                  (5.14)                 (-1.60)
ResidBasisRett                   -0.080
                                 (-1.60)
TradtBasisRett                              0.245***
                                             (5.14)
MKTRett                 0.103    0.098       0.114*       -0.043 -0.065          -0.068 -0.061
                        (1.56) (1.48)        (1.77)      (-0.70) (-1.08)        (-1.14) (-1.02)
MomRett                 -0.060 -0.030      -0.135***     0.308*** 0.321***      0.374*** 0.370***
                       (-1.53) (-0.70)      (-3.32)       (8.50) (9.05)         (10.53) (10.41)
BasisMomRett           0.198*** 0.219***    0.108**      0.364*** 0.323***      0.268*** 0.281***
                        (4.51) (4.79)        (2.35)       (8.96) (7.98)          (6.74)   (6.94)
Adj R2                   3.9%    4.2%         8.7%        27.0% 30.6%            27.2% 27.5%




                                                10
  Appendix Table A10: Return Predictability of Relative Basis in the Business Cycle
                          Calendar-Time Portfolio Sorts

This table examines the returns of the long-short relative-basis portfolio formed in different
parts of the business cycle. We split the full sample equally into two subperiods: economic
expansions and contractions. These subperiods are defined by the Philadelphia Fed Aruoba-
Diebold-Scotti Business Conditions Index (ADS Index) in Panel A and the Chicago Fed
National Activity Index (CFNAI Index) in Panel B. This table reports the average return of the
long-short relative-basis portfolio in the following month or quarter, depending on whether the
portfolios are constructed in economy expansions or contractions. We also report the difference
of the high-minus-low portfolio returns between economic expansions and contractions. The
sample period is January 1979 to December 2019. T-statistics, based on standard errors with
Newey-West adjustments of 12 lags, are reported in parenthesis below the corresponding
coefficients. *, **, and *** indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively.

                      Panel A: Business cycle proxied by ADS Index
                                                      P1        P3              P3-P1
   Expansion                  next-month return -0.36%        0.88%            1.24%***
                                                                                (4.45)
                                next-quarter return -1.10%         2.56%       3.66%***
                                                                                (7.81)
   Contraction                  next-month return      -0.08%      0.30%        0.38%
                                                                                (1.40)
                                next-quarter return -0.68%         1.07%       1.75%***
                                                                                (3.44)
   Expansion - Contraction next-month return                                   0.86%**
                                                                                (2.21)
                                next-quarter return                            1.91%***
                                                                                (2.77)

                     Panel B: Business cycle proxied by CFNAI Index
                                                      P1        P3              P3-P1
   Expansion                   next-month return -0.23%       0.89%            1.12%***
                                                                                (4.03)
                                next-quarter return -1.04%         2.64%       3.69%***
                                                                                (7.78)
   Contraction                  next-month return      -0.21%      0.31%        0.51%*
                                                                                (1.86)
                                next-quarter return -0.74%         0.99%       1.73%***
                                                                                (3.45)
   Expansion - Contraction next-month return                                    0.61%
                                                                                (1.55)
                                next-quarter return                            1.96%***
                                                                                (2.84)




                                              11
                           Appendix Table A11: Return-Forecasting Regressions of Traditional Basis

This table examines asymmetric return predictability of positive and negative traditional basis. The dependent variable is the
commodity futures’ return in the following month. The main explanatory variables are traditional basis (TradtBasisi,t), positive
traditional basis (TradtBasis_posi,t), and negative traditional relative basis (TradtBasis_negi,t). We define TradtBasis_posi,t
(TradtBasis_negi,t) as the traditional basis of commodity i in month t if it is positive (negative) and zero otherwise. We further the
return predictability of traditional basis in different parts of the business cycle. The business cycle is proxied by the Philadelphia Fed
Aruoba-Diebold-Scotti Business Conditions Index (ADS Index) in columns (3)-(6) and by the Chicago Fed National Activity Index
(CFNAI Index) in columns (7)-(10). Other control variables include Momentum and BasisMom. The sample period is January 1979
to December 2019. T-statistics, based on standard errors with Newey-West adjustments of 12 lags, are reported in parenthesis below
the corresponding coefficients. *, **, and *** indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively.

                                                          Business cycle proxied by              Business cycle proxied by
                             Full sample period
                                                                  ADS index                           CFNAI Index
                                                          Expansion       Contraction            Expansion       Contraction
                                (1)         (2)          (3)     (4)      (5)     (6)           (7)     (8)      (9)     (10)
       TradtBasisi,t          -0.002                   0.000            -0.004                -0.007            0.003
                              (-0.30)                  (0.04)           (-0.59)               (-0.71)          (0.49)
       TradtBasis_posi,t                  -0.007               -0.025            0.010                -0.006           -0.009
                                          (-0.42)              (-0.83)          (0.42)                (-0.28)          (-0.35)
       TradtBasis_negi,t                   0.007                0.007            0.007                 0.014            0.000
                                          (0.80)               (0.57)           (0.60)                (1.25)           (-0.03)
       Controls                 Yes         Yes         Yes      Yes      Yes     Yes           Yes     Yes      Yes     Yes
       Adj R2                 10.4%       12.9%        10.5%    13.0%     10.2%    12.8%       10.9%    12.8%     9.9%     13.0%




                                                                   12
        Appendix Table A12: The Impact of Spread Position on the Return Predictability
                                   of Residual Basis

This table shows the impact of non-commercial spread position on the return predictability of
residual basis. In the first two columns, we conduct the following monthly Fama-MacBeth cross-
sectional regression:
  𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑡𝑡𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡+1 = 𝑎𝑎𝑡𝑡 + 𝑏𝑏1,𝑡𝑡 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 + 𝑏𝑏2,𝑡𝑡 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 ∗ 𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 +𝑏𝑏3,𝑡𝑡 𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡
                   + 𝜆𝜆𝑡𝑡 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 + 𝜀𝜀𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡
where reti,t+1 is the return of the futures contracts for commodity i in month t + 1. The main
explanatory variables are ResidBasisi,t, SpreadPositioni,t, and the interaction term of both
variables. ResidBasis is the residual basis, defined as the sum of intercept and residual term
from a cross-sectional regression of traditional basis on relative basis. SpreadPositioni,t, is defined
as the non-commercial traders’ aggregate spread position scaled by the open interest for each
commodity i in a specific month t. Other control variables include RelatBasisi,t, Momentumi,t
and BasisMomi,t. We employ the next-quarter commodity futures returns as the dependent
variable in the next two columns and repeat the exercises. The sample period is January 1993 to
December 2019. T-statistics, based on standard errors with Newey-West adjustments of 12 lags,
are reported in parenthesis below the corresponding coefficients. *, **, and *** indicate
significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively.

                                                                        Next month               Next quarter
 Dependent variable                                              commodity futures return commodity futures return
                                                                     (1)          (2)          (3)           (4)
 ResidBasisi,t                                                     -0.009       -0.011       0.007          0.032
                                                                   (-0.91)      (-0.58)      (0.37)        (0.80)
 ResidBasisi,t * SpreadPositioni,t                                               0.094                     -0.085
                                                                                (0.50)                    (-0.28)
 SpreadPositioni,t                                                              -0.020                     -0.091
                                                                                (-0.82)                   (-1.46)
                                                                         **           ***          ***
 RelatBasisi,t                                                     0.018       0.023        0.063         0.064***
                                                                   (2.41)       (2.96)       (4.13)        (4.17)
                                                                          *
 Momentumi,t                                                       0.011         0.009       0.018          0.017
                                                                   (1.96)       (1.54)       (1.33)        (1.26)
                                                                         **            **
 BasisMomi,t                                                       0.057        0.055        0.091         0.099*
                                                                   (2.29)       (2.08)       (1.59)        (1.78)
 Adj R2                                                            12.6%        15.5%        12.6%         15.8%




                                                                                    13
          Appendix Table A13: Relative Basis and Smoothed Hedging Pressure
                          Calendar-Time Portfolio Returns

This table reports monthly risk-adjusted returns (i.e., alphas) of the long-short relative-basis
portfolio, controlling for the smoothed-hedging-pressure (SHP) portfolio return. Specifically, we
regress monthly long-short portfolio returns constructed from relative basis on the market factor,
the price momentum factor, the basis momentum factor, and the long-short SHP portfolio
return. The market factor MKTRett is the equal-weighted average return of all commodities in
our sample. MomRett and BasisMomRett are the returns of the price momentum and basis
momentum factor portfolios. SHPRet is the long-short portfolio return that goes long (short)
commodities with the highest (lowest) smoothed hedging pressure. All portfolio returns are in
percentage units. The sample period is January 1979 to December 2019. T-statistics are reported
in parenthesis below the corresponding coefficients. *, **, and *** indicate significance at the
10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively.

                                    RelatBasisRett                      SHPRett
                               (1)        (2)      (3)          (4)        (5)      (6)
                                   ***        **
      Intercept (alpha)     0.784       0.566    0.579**     0.929  ***
                                                                        0.607  **
                                                                                  0.620**
                             (3.19)     (2.37)   (2.40)       (3.49)     (2.41)   (2.44)
      RelatBasisRett                                          -0.002              -0.023
                                                             (-0.03)              (-0.39)
      SHPRett               -0.002                -0.021
                            (-0.03)              (-0.39)
      MKTRett                          0.031       0.035               0.197***   0.197***
                                       (0.44)     (0.49)                (2.68)     (2.68)
      MomRett                         -0.124**   -0.119**              0.246***   0.243***
                                      (-2.58)    (-2.39)                (4.87)     (4.76)
      BasisMomRett                    0.284***   0.287***              0.141**    0.147**
                                       (4.99)     (4.99)                (2.34)     (2.35)
      Adj R2                 0.0%      7.2%           7.0%    0.0%      12.4%      12.1%




                                                 14
                Appendix Table A14: Basis Momentum Strategy Returns

This table reports monthly risk-adjusted returns (i.e., alphas) of the long-short portfolio
constructed from basis momentum of Boons and Prado (2019). Specifically, we regress monthly
long-short portfolio returns sorted by basis momentum on the market factor, the price
momentum factor, and various basis portfolio returns. RelatBasisRett, TradtBasisRett, and
ResidBasisRett are the long-short portfolio returns constructed from relative basis, traditional
basis, and residual basis, respectively. The market factor MKTRett is the equal-weighted
average return of all commodities in our sample. MomRett and BasisMomRett are the returns of
the price momentum and basis momentum factor portfolios. All portfolio returns are in
percentage units. The sample period is January 1979 to December 2019. T-statistics are reported
in parenthesis below the corresponding coefficients. *, **, and *** indicate significance at the
10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively.

                                                 BasisMomRett
                                        (1)         (2)        (3)        (4)
              Intercept (alpha)      0.878***    0.700  ***
                                                            0.777***   0.708***
                                      (4.33)      (3.46)     (4.01)     (3.71)
                                                        ***
              RelatBasisRett                     0.207
                                                  (4.54)
              ResidBasisRett                                0.334***
                                                             (7.08)
              TradtBasisRett                                           0.357***
                                                                        (8.28)
              MKTRett                 0.012       -0.009     0.021      0.017
                                      (0.20)     (-0.16)    (0.37)      (0.30)
              MomRett                0.122***    0.136***   -0.019      0.002
                                      (3.12)      (3.53)    (-0.44)     (0.05)
              Adj R2                   1.6%        5.4%     10.6%       13.6%




                                                15
