                                       City Research Online
                                   City St George’s, University of London



 Citation: Fuertes, A-M., Miffre, J. & Rallis, G. (2010). Tactical allocation in
 commodity futures markets: Combining momentum and term structure signals.
 Journal of Banking & Finance, 34(10), pp. 2530-2548. doi:
 10.1016/j.jbankfin.2010.04.009

 This is the accepted version of the paper.

 This version of the publication may differ from the final published version. To cite
 this item please consult the publisher's version.




 Permanent repository link: https://openaccess.city.ac.uk/id/eprint/6416/

 Link to published version: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbankfin.2010.04.009




Copyright and Reuse: Copyright and Moral Rights remain with the author(s) and/or
copyright holders. Copies of full items can be used for personal research or study,
educational, or not-for-profit purposes without prior permission or charge, unless otherwise
indicated, provided that the authors, title and full bibliographic details are credited, a
hyperlink and/or URL is given for the original metadata page and the content is not changed
in any way. For full details of reuse please refer to City Research Online policy.

 City Research Online:     http://openaccess.city.ac.uk/   publications@citystgeorges.ac.uk
 Tactical Allocation in Commodity Futures Markets:
 Combining Momentum and Term Structure Signals

            GEORGIOS RALLIS*, JOËLLE MIFFRE**, ANA-MARIA FUERTES***


                  *       Cass Business School, City University London
                        **      EDHEC Business School, France.




                                       Abstract

This paper examines the combined role of momentum and term structure signals for
the design of profitable trading strategies in commodity futures markets. With
significant annualized alphas of 10.14% and 12.66% respectively, the momentum and
term structure strategies appear profitable when implemented individually. With an
abnormal return of 21.02%, our double-sort strategy that exploits both momentum and
term structure signals clearly outperforms the single-sort strategies. This double-sort
strategy can additionally be utilized as a portfolio diversification tool. The abnormal
performance of the combined portfolios cannot be explained by a lack of liquidity,
data mining or transaction costs.




JEL classification: G13, G14
Keywords: Commodity futures, momentum, term structure, double-sort strategy.




                                           1
1. Introduction

Commodity futures have become widespread investment vehicles among traditional and

alternative asset managers. They are now commonly used for strategic and tactical asset

allocations. The strategic appeal of commodity indices comes from their equity-like

return, their inflation-hedging properties and their role for risk diversification (Greer,

1978; Bodie and Rosansky, 1980; Jensen et al., 2000; Erb and Harvey, 2006; Gorton and

Rouwenhorst, 2006; Chong and Miffre, 2010). Recent research has also established that

commodity futures can be used to generate abnormal returns. For example, Erb and

Harvey (2006) exploit the term-structure signals of 12 commodities and implement a

simple long-short strategy that buys the 6 most backwardated commodities and shorts the

6 most contangoed commodities. In a similar vein, Erb and Harvey (2006) and Miffre and

Rallis (2007) follow momentum signals and tactically allocate wealth towards the best

performing commodities and away from the worst performing ones. These simple active

strategies have been shown to be capable of generating attractive returns.1

    This paper digs deeper into the tactical opportunities of commodity futures by

introducing an active double-sort strategy that combines momentum and term structure

signals. This novel strategy aims at consistently buying the backwardated winners whose

prices are expected to appreciate, and shorting the contangoed losers whose prices are

expected to depreciate. While doing this, we expand on the term structure-only (hereafter,

TS-only) strategy of Erb and Harvey (2006) by assessing the sensitivity of the TS profits

to the roll-return definition, the frequency of rebalancing of the long-short portfolios and

the date of portfolio formation. We also provide an in-depth analysis of the risk,

performance and trading costs of the single-sort (momentum-only and TS-only) and

double-sort portfolios.


1
  Other references on active management in commodity markets include Jensen et al. (2002), Wang
and Yu (2004), Basu et al. (2006), Marshall et al. (2008).


                                              2
    Three contributions to the empirical literature on commodity futures markets are

worth noting. First, we show that combining the momentum and term structure signals

enhances the abnormal performance of either of the individual single-sort strategies. On a

yearly basis, while the profitable momentum-only and TS-only strategies earn on average

an abnormal return of 10.14% and 12.66%, respectively, the combined double-sort

strategies, with an average annualized alpha of 21.02%, clearly provide the best signal on

which to allocate wealth. A robustness analysis suggests that the superior profits of the

double-sort strategies are not an artifact of lack of liquidity or data mining, and are robust

to alternative specifications of the risk-return relationship. They are also robust to the

high level of volatility experienced since January 2007. Second, the new commodity-

based relative-strength portfolios emerge as excellent candidates for inclusion in well-

diversified portfolios given the very low correlations between their returns and those of

traditional asset classes. Hence, commodity futures may be tactically added to the asset

mix of institutional investors not exclusively to earn abnormal returns but also to

diversify the total risk of their global equity and/or fixed-income portfolios. Third, the

proposed double-sort strategies are implemented on a small cross section of contracts that

are cheap to trade, liquid and easy to sell short. Net of reasonable transaction costs, they

still generate a yearly net alpha of 20.41% on average.

    The article proceeds as follows. Section 2 presents the dataset. Sections 3 and 4

analyze the profits of the individual momentum strategies and term structure strategies,

while Section 5 studies the performance of strategies that jointly exploit momentum and

term structure signals. Section 6 provides robustness checks and Section 7 concludes.


2. Data

The dataset from Datastream International and Bloomberg spans the period January, 1

1979 to January, 31 2007. It consists of the daily closing prices on the nearby, second-

nearby and distant contracts of 37 commodities: 13 agricultural futures (cocoa, coffee,


                                              3
corn, cotton, oats, orange juice, soybean meal, soybean oil, soybeans, sugar, wheat

Kansas City, wheat CBOT, white wheat), 4 livestock futures (feeder cattle, frozen pork

bellies, lean hogs, live cattle), 10 metal futures (aluminum, copper, gold, lead, nickel,

palladium, platinum, silver, tin, zinc), 6 energy futures (Brent crude oil, crude oil, gas oil,

heating oil, natural gas, unleaded gasoline), the futures on milk and lumber and two non

overlapping diammonium phosphate contracts. To avoid survivorship bias, we include

contracts that started trading after January 1979 or were delisted before January 2007.

The total sample size ranges from a low of 22 contracts at the beginning of the sample

period to a peak of 35 contracts from July 1997 onwards.

     This study investigates the sensitivity of the TS profits to the date at which futures

returns are measured. Two approaches are used to compile time series of futures returns.

First, we assume that we hold the nearby contract up to the month prior to maturity. At

the end of that month (EOM hereafter), we roll our position over to the second nearest-to-

maturity contract and hold that contract up to one month prior to maturity. The procedure

is then rolled forward to the next set of nearest and second-nearest contracts when a new

sequence of futures prices is compiled. Second, we repeat this approach but, this time, the

roll date is set to the 15th of the maturity month (15M hereafter) if the contract is traded

on that day or to the 15th of the month prior to maturity otherwise. In both cases, futures

returns are computed as the percentage change of the closing prices. Note that the rolling

procedure used ensures that problems related to lack of liquidity are kept to a minimum

since the nearest or second-nearest contracts are always used in the returns calculation.

     Investors earn a total return on a fully-collateralized position in futures markets equal

to the sum of the collateral return (e.g. Treasury-bill rate earned on the notional amount of

the futures contract) and the futures return (i.e. percentage change in the futures price).2



2
  In line with the asset pricing literature, the futures return is often called ‘excess return’ as the
collateral return is taken out of the total return to calculate the futures return.



                                                  4
We assume therefore that investors hold unlevered positions in futures markets. Our long

and short active strategies examined in isolation are fully collateralized. By construction,

our combined long-short active strategies are therefore 50% collateralized.3 The leverage

is kept constant over time and the strategies are marked to market daily. Our combined

long-short strategies could become fully collateralized if half of the trading capital was

invested in the strategies and the rest held as collateral. The advantages of assuming fully-

collateralized positions are twofold. First, the collateral can be used to pay for any margin

calls and thus there should not be any liquidation of the futures positions before the end of

the holding period because of a margin call. As liquid assets are available if and when

needed, the unlevered positions have the merit of bearing little to no liquidity risk.

Second, the single and double-sort strategies will generate a total return that includes not

only the futures returns reported below (in Sections 3 to 6), but also the return earned on

the collateral in excess of any margin call. This article only reports the excess return of

the active strategies and thus under-estimates the total performance of the active

portfolios by an amount equal to the collateral return (minus any margin call).


3. Single-Sort Strategies Based on Momentum

3.1. Methodology

A growing literature establishes that momentum strategies generate significant abnormal

returns in equity markets (Jegadeesh and Titman, 1993, 2001; Chan et al., 1996).4 In a

recent paper, Miffre and Rallis (2007) extend this finding to futures markets. This paper



3
  In line with Gorton and Rouwenhorst (2006), and Gorton, Hayashi and Rouwenhorst (2008), the
returns of the combined long-short strategies have been computed by subtracting the returns of the
shorts from the returns of the longs. In futures markets this implies a gross exposure that is double that
of our trading capital.
4
  The profitability of momentum strategies has been shown to be related to different factors such as
behavioral biases, industry effect, trading volume, the business cycle, liquidity risk, trading costs, the
cross-sectional variation in unconditional expected returns, and time-varying unsystematic risk
(Barberis et al., 1998; Conrad and Kaul, 1998; Daniel et al., 1998; Hong and Stein, 1999; Moskowitz
and Grinblatt, 1999; Lee and Swaminathan, 2000; Chordia and Shivakumar, 2002; Korajczyk and
Sadka, 2004; Lesmond et al.,. 2004; Sadka, 2006; Li et al., 2008).


                                                    5
follows the same approach and, accordingly, at the end of each month futures contracts

are sorted into quintiles based on their average return over the previous R months

(ranking period). The futures contracts in each quintile are equally weighted. The

performance of both the top (winner) and bottom (loser) quintiles is monitored over the

subsequent H months (holding period). The resulting R-H momentum strategy buys the

winner portfolio, shorts the loser portfolio and holds the long-short position for H months.

    Following Moskowitz and Grinblatt (1999), Jegadeesh and Titman (2001) and Miffre

and Rallis (2007) inter alia, the relative-strength portfolios are overlapping. For instance,

with the 6-3 momentum strategy, the winner portfolio in, say, December is

constructed by equally-weighting the top 3 quintile portfolios that were formed at the

end of September (using March to August returns), October (using April-September

returns) and November (using May-October returns). Hence, its December return is

equal to the average return of those 3 overlapping portfolios. Likewise for the loser

portfolio but with reference to the bottom 3 quintile portfolios. The return of the

momentum strategy is then defined as the difference in the December returns of the

winner and loser portfolios. Therefore an R-H momentum strategy implies forming

portfolios at two distinct levels: at the end of each month individual commodity

futures contracts are sorted into a winner (top quintile) portfolio and a loser (bottom

quintile) portfolio based on the returns over the previous R months; then, effectively,

at any point in time (month t) an equally-weighted portfolio is held (shorted) that

combines the H overlapping winner (loser) portfolios formed at the end of months t-1,

t-2,…, t-H. This procedure is rolled forward monthly.

    To conserve space, the analysis is focused on the 13 permutations of ranking and

holding periods that proved to be profitable on a risk-adjusted basis at the 5% level or

better in Miffre and Rallis (2007). As a result, we consider 4 strategies with 1-month

ranking period (1-1, 1-3, 1-6, 1-12), 4 strategies with 3-month ranking period (3-1, 3-3, 3-


                                             6
6, 3-12), 3 strategies with 6-month ranking period (6-1, 6-3, 6-6) and 2 strategies with 12-

month ranking period (12-1, 12-3). In our notation, say, 1-6 refers to a momentum

strategy based on past 1-month returns (ranking period) and held for 6 months.5

     The following multifactor model is then used to gauge the risk-adjusted returns:

                                                              
          R Pt     B R Bt  R ft   M RMt  R ft   C RCt  R ft   Pt                     (1)

where RPt is the return of the long (L), short (S), or long-short (L-S) portfolio, RBt, RMt and

RCt are, respectively, the returns on the Lehman Aggregate US total return bond index, the

S&P500 composite index and the S&P GSCI (Standard & Poor’s Goldman Sachs

Commodity Index), Rft is the risk-free rate (proxied by 3-month US T-Bills) and Pt is an

error term. Insignificance of  suggests that the returns from the active strategies are just

a compensation for risk which is consistent with rational pricing in an efficient market.6


3.2. Performance evaluation and risk management

Table 1 reports summary statistics for the 13 winners (Panel A), 13 losers (Panel B) and

13 momentum portfolios (Panel C) outlined above.7 Table 2 sets out the parameter

estimates and significance tests for equation (1). Despite differences in the samples

employed, the evidence confirms the main findings in Miffre and Rallis (2007), namely,

that trend-following is a reliable source of returns in commodity futures markets.

                               [Insert Tables 1 and 2 around here]

     Table 1, Panel C suggests that the return spread between winners and losers is

positive and significant at better than the 5% level for 11 strategies. Accordingly, active




5
  The unreported momentum strategies 6-12, 12-6 and 12-12 did not deliver significantly positive
returns for the current sample (-1% to 2% a year) either.
6
  One could adopt any of the alternative multifactor models in the literature with, for instance,
additional systematic risk factors such as co-skewness and co-kurtosis or nonlinear specifications (see
Fuertes et al., 2009). However, what is crucial when it comes to contrasting the performance of single-
sort and double-sort strategies is that the same risk-adjustment be employed throughout.
7
  The Ljung-Box test unambiguously suggests that the monthly returns summarized in Table 1 are not
autocorrelated despite arising from an overlapping-portfolio strategy. This is because (as explained in
Section 3.1) the December return of, say, a 6-3 strategy is obtained as the average of the 3 winner


                                                  7
portfolio managers who consistently tilt their asset allocation towards the best performing

commodity futures and away from the worst performing ones could earn an average

return of 10.53% a year. Over the same period a long-only passive portfolio that equally-

weights the 37 commodities only earns 3.40% a year, while the S&P GSCI earns 3.62%.

As expected, the winner portfolios in Table 1, Panel A generate a positive and significant

average return across strategies of 8.75% a year. In contrast, the losers in Table 1, Panel B

generate a negative (albeit insignificant) average return at -1.46%. Hence, over the 1979-

2007 period, the profitability of momentum strategies appears driven by the winners.8

     The 13 momentum strategies clearly bear more risk than a long-only passive

benchmark that equally-weights the 37 commodities. For example, Panel C indicates that

the annualized volatility, downside risk and 99% Cornish-Fisher Value-at-Risk of the

active long-short portfolios (20.17%, 12.59% and 15.27% on average) far exceed those of

the benchmark (10.92%, 7.60% and 9.46%, respectively). Because of high levels of

kurtosis in the return distribution of the winners in Panel A (8.9950 on average), the

returns distribution of the average momentum portfolio is also more leptokurtic (at

6.0011) than that of the benchmark (4.6578). It follows that the additional reward earned

on these momentum strategies relative to the passive benchmark may be a trivial

compensation for the incremental risks that active investors bear.

     To account for risk, we first standardize the returns with respect to both the total and

downside risk and, accordingly, examine the reward-to-risk ratios and Sortino ratios of

the portfolios. The results in Panel C of Table 1 suggest that the momentum returns more

than compensate for the total risk of the trend-following strategy: the reward-to-risk ratios

of the active long-short portfolios (0.5162 on average) systematically exceed that of the



(loser) portfolios in December corresponding to the top (bottom) quintile portfolios constructed at the
end of September, October and November. This averaging washes out the autocorrelation.
8
  Similarly, the maximum 12-month rolling returns of the winner portfolios in Table 1, Panel A (at
76.65% across strategies) are always much higher than the absolute value of the minimum 12-month
rolling returns of the loser portfolios in Table 1, Panel B (at 43.33% on average).


                                                  8
passive benchmark (0.3112). Similarly, the returns of the relative-strength portfolios are

sufficient to reward downside risk: the Sortino ratio of the benchmark (0.4473) is

consistently below that of the 13 active strategies at 0.8302 on average.

     We also adjust for risk with the multifactor model (1).9 The results in Table 2 suggest

that, in line with Miffre and Rallis (2007), the returns of virtually all long/short portfolios

follow the ups and downs of the S&P GSCI (with a confidence level of at least 95%)

whereas they appear essentially neutral to the risks present in the bond and equity

markets. For 10 out of 13 strategies, the abnormal returns are positive and strongly

significant at the 5% or 1% level, with an average  at 10.14% a year.10 Thus the

momentum returns are not merely a compensation for exposure to these risks. It turns out

that the momentum profitability is essentially dictated by the abnormal performance of

the winner portfolios – the  of the winners is significantly positive whereas that of the

losers is negative but typically insignificant. The average outperformance of the long

winner portfolios (6.02%) compares favorably to that of the short losers (-3.14%). This

result is of interest since it challenges the somewhat common belief in the momentum

literature that trend-following profits are mainly driven by short positions in losers (see,

for example, Moskowitz and Grinblatt, 1999, Hong et al., 2000).


3.3. Transaction costs

A potential flaw of the evidence presented thus far is that the active profits could be

eroded by transaction costs or merely arise as a compensation for market frictions and

thin trading (see Lesmond et al., 2004). However, in the present context, there are natural



9
  The residuals of each equation were subjected to the Breusch-Godfrey LM autocorrelation test and
Engle LM heteroskedasticity test (both for a maximum lag order of 12). There is no evidence of
autocorrelation but some marginal instances of heteroskedasticity. Hence, the significance t-ratios are
based on either the usual OLS standard errors or heteroskedasticity-robust (White) ones, as appropriate.
10
   The sensitivities of the long-short portfolios to the S&P-GSCI are positive and mainly significant.
The S&P-GSCI earned a positive mean return of 3.62% over the period 1979-2007. As a result, the
alphas of the momentum portfolios, once annualized by multiplying them by 12, are, with the
exception of the 1-1 strategy, less than the annualized arithmetic means reported in Table 1.


                                                   9
arguments against these explanations. For example, commodity futures markets have

been shown to be subject to rather small trading costs ranging from 0.0004% to 0.033%

(Locke and Venkatesh, 1997) which is well below the conservative 0.5% estimate of

Jegadeesh and Titman (1993) or the more plausible 2.3% estimate of Lesmond et al.

(2004) for equity momentum portfolios. Besides, although equity markets are subject to

short-selling restrictions, short positions can be taken in commodity futures as

straightforwardly as long positions. A third key point is that, in the active strategy, the

nearest or next nearest contracts were used which are typically the most liquid ones and

thus the cheapest to trade. Last but not least, only 37 commodity futures are used in the

analysis which means that our strategies are far less trading intensive than the ones

typically carried out in equity markets.

     These points notwithstanding, it is key to assess the impact of trading costs on the

momentum profits. Three elements influence the buying and selling of a commodity

contract and hence, the strategies’ turnover. These are: a) the rolling of contracts as

maturity approaches, b) the change in the constituents of the active portfolios at the time

of portfolio construction and c) monthly rebalancing to equal weights.11 In order to

quantify actual trading costs, we calculate the turnover of our portfolios by counting the

number of contracts that are bought or sold in a given month.12

     The results are reported in the last two rows of Table 1, Panel C. A turnover statistic

of 1 indicates that we buy and sell the portfolio once. On average, the active strategies

have a turnover of 9.05, while the constituents of the passive portfolio change hands less

often (6.34 times a year). We take as estimate of transaction costs the conservative

0.033% of Locke and Venkatesh (1997) and report estimates of the net momentum


11
   The monthly rebalancing to equal weights is minimal compared to the other two transaction costs
and is not considered in this study. Likewise, we limit our analysis of trading costs to the measurement
of round-trip transaction costs and ignore price impact and commissions.
12
   We avoid double counting, e.g. if the active strategy recommends in a given month retaining the
contract in the following period and the contract does not roll on that month, trading costs are not
incurred since there is no need to close the initial position and re-open a new one.


                                                  10
returns. Clearly transaction costs have an impact on momentum profits but not to the

extent that they would wipe the positive momentum returns out. On average, the

momentum strategy earns a net return of 9.62% or a net alpha of 8.76%. The best

outcome net of round-trip transaction costs comes from the 1-1, 3-1 and 12-1 momentum

strategies that earn net returns of 16.99%, 15.31% and 14.82% a year, respectively. We

now turn our attention to the class of TS-only strategies.


4. Single-Sort Strategies Based on Term-Structure

4.1. Methodology

Keynes (1930) and Cootner (1960) put forward the idea that commodity futures prices

depend on the net positions of hedgers. The general message is that producers and

consumers of the underlying commodity transfer the risk of price fluctuations to

speculators, who are willing to undertake this risk in the hope of a large positive return. If

the supply by short hedgers exceeds the demand by long hedgers (namely, hedgers are net

short), the futures price today has to be a downward-biased estimate of the futures price at

maturity. This is to induce speculators to take long positions in commodity futures

markets. The increase in the futures price as maturity approaches is referred to as normal

backwardation. Conversely, if hedgers are net long, the futures price today has to exceed

the futures price at maturity to persuade speculators to take short positions in commodity

futures markets. The decrease in the futures price as maturity approaches is traditionally

referred to as contango. Thus, normal backwardation and contango arise as a result of the

inequality between the long and short positions of hedgers, which require the intervention

of speculators to restore equilibrium (Bessembinder, 1992). This is why it is generally

accepted that futures markets provide insurance to hedgers by ensuring the transfer of

price risk to speculators. The insurance that net hedgers are willing to pay equals the

premium earned by speculators for this risk bearing.




                                             11
      If commodity futures returns directly relate to the propensity of hedgers to be net

long or net short, it becomes natural to design an active strategy that buys backwardated

contracts and shorts contangoed contracts. The price gap between different-maturity

contracts, called roll-return (Rt) or implied yield, can be used as a signal of whether a

market is in backwardation or contango. It is defined as:

                           Rt  ln  Pt ,n   ln  Pt ,d   
                                                                           365            (2)
                                                                     N t , d  N t ,n

where Pt,n is the time t price of the nearest-to-maturity contract, Pt,d is the price of the

distant contract, Nt,n is the number of days between time t and the maturity of the nearby

contract and Nt,d is the number of days between time t and the maturity of the distant

contract. A positive Rt indicates that the price of the nearby contract exceeds that of the

distant contract, namely, that the term structure of commodity futures prices is

downward-sloping and so that the market is in backwardation. Conversely, a negative Rt

signals an upward-sloping price curve and a contangoed market. Thus motivated, Erb and

Harvey (2006) and Gorton and Rouwenhorst (2006) introduce a new dynamic asset

allocation strategy that seeks to exploit the term structure of commodity futures prices by

taking long positions in backwardated contracts and short positions in contangoed ones.

    The first strategy we consider, TS1, is similar to Erb and Harvey’s (2006) and Gorton

and Rouwenhorst’s (2006). It buys each month the 20% of commodities with the highest

roll-returns, shorts the 20% of commodities with the lowest roll-returns and holds the

long-short positions for a month. The contracts in each quintile are equally-weighted.

    Several TS-only strategies are deployed in an attempt to shed light on different issues

that may impact their profitability. First, we assess how the choice of the distant contract

influences profits. To do this, we use as proxy of the distant contract d in our calculation

of the roll-return in (2) either the second nearest contract (this is the former TS1 strategy)

or the contract with the maturity that is the furthest away (this strategy is called TS2).




                                                     12
Hence, we are implicitly testing whether the front end of the term structure conveys a

better signal on which to base tactical trading than the whole curve.

    Second, we investigate the link between the term structure profits and the frequency

of the long-short portfolio rebalancing in a given month. Hence, instead of always

assessing the constituents of the long-short portfolio once a month and holding the

positions for the following month (TS1), we allow for more frequent rebalancing. In

particular, four short-term strategies are considered such that the portfolio formation takes

place every N=int(M/i) days, where M is the number of trading days in a given month,

int(.) is the rounding down integer operator and i = 2, 4, 7 or 10 depending on the active

strategy. The hypothesis implicitly tested here is whether more frequent rebalancings give

better term structure signals and hence, better performance. The analysis is conducted on

a transaction cost-adjusted basis; namely, after accounting for the additional costs

incurred while dynamically trading the portfolios i times a month as opposed to just once

(TS1). The strategies are called TS3,i for i = 2, 4, 7 or 10 rebalancings per month.

    Finally, we assess the impact that the choice of the portfolio construction date has on

the term structure returns. Accordingly, the roll-returns are measured and the portfolios

formed either at the end of the month (EOM) or on the 15th of the month (15M).


4.2. Performance evaluation, risk management and transaction costs

Summary performance measures for the term-structure strategies TS1, TS2, TS3,i (i = 2, 4,

7, 10) are set out in Table 3. The top and bottom panels focus, respectively, on EOM and

15M returns. For 7 out of the 12 strategies, the term-structure long-short portfolios yield

positive returns which are economically and statistically significant with a confidence

level above 95%. Across those 7 strategies one could earn an average return of 12.28% a

year by consistently buying the most backwardated contracts and selling the most

contangoed ones. Over the same sample period a long-only equally-weighted portfolio of

the 37 commodities earns 3.40% (EOM) or 5.07% (15M) a year. Table 3 also reports the


                                             13
net performance of the strategies where the calculations for the transaction costs are based

on the same methodology as the one employed in Table 1. As with momentum in Table 1,

transaction costs do not wipe out the term structure profits but decrease them by a

marginal 0.91% return a year on average. As expected, the damaging impact of

transaction costs is most felt for the strategies that trade more often.

                                 [Insert Table 3 around here]

      Uniformly across the 7 profitable term structure strategies, the most-backwardated

portfolios always yield positive average returns which are significant both economically

and statistically ranging from a high of 12.26% (TS1, 15M) to a low of 8.08% (TS3,i=7,

EOM). Conversely, the average return from the most-contangoed portfolios is always

insignificant, ranging from a low of -5.60% (TS1, EOM) to a high of 0.13% (TS3,i=10,

EOM) per annum. Hence, the profits of the term structure signals are mainly driven by

long positions in backwardated contracts.

    A closer look at the term structure strategies provides interesting insights. First, the

most profitable strategy is TS1 with significant average profits of 14.10% a year, both

with the EOM and 15M portfolios. The fact that TS1 performs relatively (and in absolute

terms) better than TS2 suggests that the front-end of the term structure conveys a better

signal for tactical trading than the whole curve. A comparison across TS3,i with i=2, 4, 7

and 10 indicates that the more frequent the rebalancing, the lower the returns. This result

is reinforced by the fact that larger transaction costs are incurred with more regular

rebalancing which exacerbates the difference in net returns between TS1 and TS3,i.

    Second, analyzing the performance of the 15M approach can be seen as a

robustness check on EOM because there is no fundamental reason to believe that the

term structure profits should differ between EOM and 15M, namely, the portfolio

formation date should not matter a priori. This is confirmed by statistical tests

(detailed in Appendix A3) suggesting that, for 4 out of the 6 term structure strategies



                                              14
considered, the EOM and 15M returns are indistinguishable. Only in 2 cases, TS3,i=7

and TS3,i=10, do the EOM returns differ from the 15M returns but this could be a

spurious result, that is, due to sampling variability. Moreover, the performance

measures presented in Table 3 and Table 4 clearly suggest that investors should favor

TS1 (over TS3,i=7 and TS3,i=10), a strategy for which the EOM and 15M approaches are

undoubtedly equivalent. Overall these findings lead us to conclude that the date of

portfolio formation is, effectively, immaterial for term structure investors.13

     Third, and as in Table 1, the active strategies on average bear substantially more risk

than the passive benchmark. For example, the annualized volatility, downside volatility

and 99% Cornish-Fisher VaR of the benchmark are roughly half of those of the active

strategies. The returns distribution of the most profitable strategy, TS1, is also

substantially more leptokurtic than that of the EOM or 15M benchmark. Moreover, the 7

profitable active strategies present lower maximum drawdowns, higher maximum run-

ups, lower minimum and higher maximum 12-month rolling returns than the benchmark.

     The reward-to-risk and Sortino ratios of all 7 profitable active strategies exceed those

of the passive EOM or 15M benchmark.14 Hence, the high average returns of the term

structure strategies appear to more than compensate investors for the increase in volatility

and downside risk that they bear relative to the passive benchmark.

     The multifactor model estimates are reported in Table 4. For virtually all of the 7

profitable term structure strategies identified in Table 3, the returns of the long-short

portfolios follow the ups and downs of the S&P GSCI but are unrelated to the S&P500



13
  Nevertheless, a closer look at the performance measures for the TS3,i=7 and TS3,i=10 strategies might
suggest that any possible outperformance of the EOM approach is driven by the negative returns of the
EOM short contangoed portfolios. One possible explanation for this relates to the timing of the hedges
placed by long hedgers and to the impact that these hedges may have on the price depreciation that
contango implies. Possibly at EOM many more hedgers hold long positions than at 15M, while at 15M
they have closed their positions. As a result the price decline implied by contango has to be stronger at
EOM to entice more speculators to take short positions. Unfortunately, because the CFTC data on net
hedging are not available at the relevant frequency over the time period and for the cross-section
covered in our study, we cannot test this hypothesis directly.


                                                  15
and the Lehman Brothers indices. Clearly, the 7 profitable term structure strategies

generate positive and significant alphas that average out at 12.66% a year. It turns out that

TS1 and TS3,i=2 with annualized alphas above 14%, are the most profitable strategies on a

risk-adjusted basis. In line with the evidence of Table 3, the alphas of the long-short

portfolios tend to be driven by the outperformance of the long portfolios rather than by

the underperformance of the short portfolios. For the 7 profitable TS strategies, the

backwardated portfolios yield a significant (positive) alpha at better than the 5% level

whereas only in 2 instances the contangoed portfolios yield a significant (negative) alpha.

                                      [Insert Table 4 around here]

        The evidence hitherto presented sums up as follows. First, individual momentum and

term-structure signals exploited separately are capable of conveying information to the

market that is of value to active traders. On average, the trend-following strategies and the

term-structure strategies that are profitable at the 5% level earn, respectively, an

annualized alpha of 10.14% and 12.66%. Second, with net returns above 13.5% a year,

three momentum strategies (1-1, 3-1 and 12-1) and one term structure strategy (TS1) stand

out as conveying the best signals for tactical allocation. We propose next a double-sort

approach that jointly exploits the two signals.


5. Double-Sort Strategies Combining Momentum and Term Structure

The commodity-based strategies discussed thus far were based on either momentum or

term structure signals individually exploited. Since there remains the possibility that

jointly using both types of signals is more fruitful, this section designs a double-sort

strategy (Section 5.1), analyzes its performance (Section 5.2) and investigates the ability

of the combined portfolio to serve as a tool for risk diversification (Section 5.3).




14
     The results for the reward-to-risk ratios are consistent with Erb and Harvey (2006).


                                                     16
5.1. Methodology

Term structure trading strategies in commodity futures select, by definition, the most

backwardated and contangoed contracts. Even though momentum strategies are not

designed per se to overtly shortlist the commodities with the steepest term structures, it

has been shown that, their long portfolios tend to contain backwardated contracts, while

their short portfolios are heavily tilted towards contangoed commodities (see Miffre and

Rallis, 2007). Hence, at first sight, one would be tempted to conclude that the momentum

and term structure signals are rather similar. To shed further light on this issue, we

calculate the Pearson correlation measure (and significance t-statistics) between the

momentum and term structure returns. Table 5 sets out the results. The correlations are

positive, as expected, but low enough to suggest that the two signals are not fully

overlapping. The correlation can be as weak as 10.92% between the TS1 (15M) and

momentum (R=1, H=1) returns or as strong as 56.96% between the TS2 (EOM) and

momentum (R=3, H=12) returns. The mean correlation is 31.26%.

                               [Insert Table 5 around here]

    These low correlations motivate the design of a third class of active strategies in

commodity futures that combine both signals through a double-sort approach as follows.

First, we compute the roll-returns at the end of each month and their 1/3 breakpoints to

split the cross section of futures contracts into 3 portfolios, labeled Low, Med and High.

We then sort the commodities in the High portfolio into 2 sub-portfolios (High-Winner

and High-Loser) based on the mean return of the commodities over the past R months. In

effect, the High-Winner and High-Loser portfolios contain 50% of the cross-section that

was selected with the first term-structure sort or 50%33.3% of the initial cross-section

that was available at the end of a given month. Intuitively, High-Winner is thus made of

the commodities that have both the highest roll-returns at the time of portfolio

construction and the best past performance. Similarly, we sort the commodities in the



                                           17
Low portfolio into 2 sub-portfolios (Low-Winner and Low-Loser) based on their mean

return over the past R months. Low-Loser contains therefore commodities that have both

the lowest roll-returns at the time of portfolio construction and the worst past

performance. The combined strategy buys the High-Winner portfolio, shorts the Low-

Loser portfolio and holds this position for one month.

    The choices of one-month holding period (H=1) and monthly rebalancing were

dictated by the fact that, as illustrated in Tables 1-4, the momentum strategies with H=1

and the TS1 strategy stand out as the most profitable.15 Following the evidence of Tables 1

and 2, the ranking periods (R) are set to 1, 3 and 12 months. The resulting strategies are

called TS1-Mom1-1, TS1-Mom3-1 and TS1-Mom12-1. This choice of momentum and term

structure signals is also naturally supported by the fact that their correlation turned out to

be relatively low in Table 5. Alternatively, the two signals can be combined in reverse

order, sorting first on momentum (1/3 breakpoints) and subsequently on roll-returns (1/2

breakpoint). The resulting strategies are called Mom1-1-TS1, Mom3-1-TS1 and Mom12-1-TS1.


5.2. Performance evaluation, risk management and transaction costs

Figure 1 plots the future value of $1 invested in TS1-Mom1-1, Mom1-1, TS1 and the passive

benchmark. Figure 2 plots the corresponding return distribution. Both figures bear out the

outstanding performance and very high risk of the active double- or single-sort strategies

relative to the passive benchmark. Figure 1 suggests, in particular, that the superior

performance of TS1-Mom1-1 seems to be driven by the relatively high returns generated

both on Mom1-1 until 1998 and on TS1 from 1999 onwards.

                            [Insert Figures 1 and 2 around here]

    Table 6 presents in Panel A summary statistics for the 6 double-sort strategies.

Consistently across all of them, the annualized average return is highly significant both in




                                             18
economic and statistical terms (t-ratios above 3.65). On average, tactically allocating

wealth towards the High-Winner (or Winner-High) portfolios and away from the Low-

Loser (or Loser-Low) ones yields a return of 21.32% a year. Over the same period the

passive benchmark returns 3.40% only and the S&P GSCI returns 3.62%. The average

return of 21.32% also compares favorably to that for the 11 momentum-only and the 7

TS-only strategies (identified as profitable with a 95% confidence level or higher in

Tables 1 and 3) at 10.53% and 12.28%, respectively.

                                   [Insert Table 6 around here]

     Out of the 6 combined strategies, the most profitable one is TS1-Mom1-1 with an

average return of 23.55% a year, while TS1-Mom12-1 lies at the other end of the spectrum

returning 18.81%. Worth noting is that the percentage of months with positive returns for

the active double-sort strategies averages 60.1% (against 55.4% for the long-only passive

portfolio), and that the double-sort strategies can capture up to 145.81% return on a run-

up period of 4 months (TS1-Mom1-1) against 31.16% return on a run-up period of 9

months for the passive benchmark. Moreover, the maximum 12-month rolling return for

the active double-sort strategies (at 143.27% on average) and the maximum monthly

return (at 37.89% on average) are much higher than those of the benchmark (35.07% and

9.44%, respectively). The skewness of the combined portfolios tends to be positive (at

0.2151 on average) and significant at the 5% level, so it compares favorably to that of the

benchmark (negative at -0.5087 and significant at the 5% level) and to those, often

negative, reported in Tables 1 and 3 for the single-sort strategies.

     Relative to the individual baseline strategies (c.f. Tables 1 and 3), the superior

performance of the double-sort rebalancing approach appears driven by the fact that the

long (short) portfolios perform better (worse) in the combined strategies than in the



15
  Given the superior performance of TS1 (versus TS2) shown in Tables 3 and 4, the roll-returns are
measured relative to the 2nd nearest contract. Since the TS1 performance for the EOM and 15M
portfolio formation is undistinguishable, without loss of generality, we focus on the former hereafter.


                                                  19
individual ones. Across the profitable strategies identified, the long portfolios earn an

average return of 14.05% in the double-sort strategy versus 9.15% in the momentum-only

strategy and 9.63% in the TS-only strategy. Similarly, with an average loss at -7.26%, the

short portfolios in the double-sort strategy tend to lose more than when either one of the

two signals is considered in isolation (-1.38% for momentum-only and -2.23% for TS-

only).16 Hence, combining the two signals improves the gains of the long portfolios and

exacerbates the losses of the short portfolios.

     The transaction costs incurred with the double-sort strategy are of similar magnitude

to those for the single-sort momentum strategy. It follows that the additional returns of

the combined strategy cannot be a compensation for the additional costs of implementing

the trades. In effect, the yearly net returns ranging from 18.25% (TS1-Mom12-1) to 22.88%

(TS1-Mom1-1) are clearly significant in economic terms.

     As the returns distribution plot (Figure 2) illustrates, the risk of the best active

double-sort strategy is substantially higher than that of the long-only passive portfolio. On

average, the annualized standard deviation and downside risk of the 6 double-sort

strategies are 27.19% and 15.82%, respectively, while those of the passive benchmark are

much smaller at 10.92% and 7.60%. The 99% Cornish-Fisher Value-at-Risk is also much

higher for the combined strategies (22.77% on average) than for the long-only equally-

weighted benchmark at 9.46%. However, the higher risk of the double-sort strategies is

more than rewarded by the market. This is born out by reward-to-risk ratios and Sortino

ratios that are consistently higher for the double-sort strategies (0.7846 and 1.3537 on

average) than for the passive benchmark (0.3112 and 0.4473, respectively). On this




16
   The same conclusion holds if, instead of averaging across all the profitable strategies identified, we
just focus on the momentum (1-1, 3-1 and 12-1) and the TS1 strategies combined in the double-sort
approach: the long portfolios earn an average return of 12.69% in the three momentum-only strategies
and 8.49% in the TS1-only strategy whereas the short portfolios lose 3.61% in the momentum-only
strategies on average and 5.6% in the TS1-only strategy.


                                                  20
simple risk-adjusted basis, the most profitable strategies are TS1-Mom1-1 (with a Sortino

ratio of 1.5607) and Mom12-1-TS1 (with a reward-risk ratio of 0.8582).

    We now turn our attention to the inferences from the multifactor model (Table 6,

Panel B). Consistent with the individual trading strategies in Tables 2 and 4, the relative-

strength long-short portfolios formed on the combined signals are exposed to commodity

risks but are neutral to the risks present in the bond and equity markets. The average

abnormal return of the 6 combined strategies equals 21.02% a year with a high of 23.66%

for TS1-Mom1-1 and a low of 18.65% for Mom3-1-TS1 (all t-ratios are above 3.6). The

alphas of the combined strategies are higher than those of the corresponding individual

strategies. In contrast with the momentum-only strategies (c.f. Table 2) and the TS-only

strategies (c.f. Table 4), both the positive alpha of the long High-Winner and Winner-

High portfolios and the negative alpha of the short Low-Loser and Loser-Low portfolios

are now statistically significant. This suggests that elements from both the long and short

portfolios drive the profitability of the double-sort strategies.


5.3. Risk diversification

Investors have traditionally utilized commodity futures to manage risk. The risk

diversification role of the double-sort strategies proposed in the paper is illustrated in

Table 7 through the Pearson correlation coefficient (and significance t-statistics) between

their returns and those of traditional asset classes.

                                 [Insert Table 7 around here]

    The average correlation between the active double-sort portfolio returns and the

excess returns of the S&P500 index is -6.26%, ranging from -8.60% (Mom12-1-TS1) to -

2.85% (Mom1-1-TS1), albeit statistically insignificant throughout. The correlations

between the double-sort portfolio returns and the excess returns on the Lehman Brothers

Aggregate US total bond index, the yields on 10-year T-bonds and the 3-month T-bill rate

are also insignificant both economically and statistically with absolute averages,


                                              21
respectively, at 4.05%, 3.00% and 3.68%. These findings add to the earlier evidence (c.f.

Table 6) that the returns of the double-sort strategies are largely immune to the swings in

the equity and bond markets. Moreover, the active double-sort portfolio returns and those

of a FX index (US$ vis-à-vis main currencies) have zero correlation at a 95% confidence

level. Therefore, by tactically including commodity futures in their asset mix, institutional

investors can simultaneously achieve two distinct goals: i) earning abnormal returns, and

ii) reducing the total risk of their global equity and/or fixed-income portfolios.

    In contrast, the active double-sort portfolio returns and the S&P GSCI excess returns

are significantly correlated. This is consistent with our earlier findings of significantly

positive sensitivities of the double-sort portfolio returns to the S&P GSCI excess returns

(c.f. Table 6). A plausible rationale for this result is the relatively high weighting of S&P

GSCI towards energy derivatives (Erb and Harvey, 2006) and the long positions of the

active portfolios in typically-backwardated energy markets.


6. Robustness Analysis

In this section, we investigate whether the superior profits of the double-sort portfolios

are a compensation for liquidity risk (Section 6.1), arise from data mining (Section 6.2),

withstand alternative specifications of the risk-return trade-off (Sections 6.3 and 6.4) and

are robust to an extended sample that takes into account the credit crunch (Section 6.5).


6.1. Liquidity risk

The possibility remains that the superior performance of the double-sort strategies is a

compensation for a lack of liquidity in some of the portfolio constituents. This is assessed

as follows. At the end of each month, the double-sort strategy TS1-Mom1-1 is deployed on

the 80% of commodities with the highest volume (HV) in that month. The resulting

portfolio is referred to as HV-TS1-Mom1-1. Likewise, a low-volume portfolio (LV-TS1-

Mom1-1) is constructed with the 80% of the smallest volume commodities over the



                                             22
previous month. Two measures of volume are used: a) $VOL defined as number of

contracts traded  number of units of underlying asset in one contract  price of the

contract, and b) %VOL defined as the percentage change in the number of contracts

traded (Wang and Yu, 2004). To make the results more robust, we consider different cut-

off points for the volume, term structure and momentum signals resulting in a total of 12

high volume and 12 low volume strategies. For instance, the first strategy reported in

Table 8, denoted Vol=0.8 / TS1=0.33 / Mom1-1=0.5, selects, first, the 80% of commodities

with the highest (lowest) volume; the 33.3%50% filtering rule is then applied for the

term structure and momentum signals as discussed in Section 5.

                                [Insert Table 8 around here]

    If the success of the proposed combined strategies in Section 5 is partly an artifact of

liquidity risk, then the HV portfolios in Table 8 should underperform the corresponding

double-sort portfolios in Table 6. At first sight, this is the case: the HV triple-sort

portfolios based on HV=0.8 / TS1=0.33 / Mom1-1=0.5 earn 19.81% and 16.67% depending

on the proxy for volume used, while the double-sort strategy based on TS1=0.33 / Mom1-

1=0.5 in Table 6 earns 23.55%. However, the assertion that the profits of the double-sort


strategies are in part an illusion induced by lack of liquidity may be too hasty. The returns

of the LV portfolios in Table 8 (right-hand side) are indeed not higher than those of the

corresponding HV portfolios (left-hand side). This is borne out by paired two-sample

Student’s t-statistics (Table 8; col. 8) which unambiguously suggest insignificant

differences in returns. The latter is reinforced by the relatively high and significant

correlations between the HV and LV strategies. Hence, it seems fair to conclude that

liquidity risk does not have a significant impact on performance in this context.

    At first sight, it might seem puzzling that the mean returns of the HV- TS1-Mom1-1

and LV-TS1-Mom1-1 portfolios (19.81% and 17.63%; Table 8) are lower than the

unconditional mean return of the TS1-Mom1-1 double-sort portfolio (23.55%; Table 6).



                                             23
One may be tempted to expect that the two sub-portfolios have mean returns that roughly

average out to the mean return of TS1-Mom1-1 (23.55%). Clearly this is not the case. One

possible explanation for this puzzle relates to the diversification return of Erb and Harvey

(2006).17 The latter comes from frequently rebalancing a portfolio of commodity futures

                                1   1 2
to equal weights and equals      1   1    (Erb and Harvey, 2006, p.86), where K
                                2 K 

is the number of assets in the portfolio,  2 is the average variance of the constituents and

 is their average correlation. Clearly, the diversification return rises with K and  2 and

falls with  . This could explain why the double-sort portfolio, which contains a larger

number of securities, can earn more than either one of the liquidity-based portfolios.

Differences in average risks and correlations between the constituents of the three

portfolios could also account for the observed difference in mean returns.


6.2. Are the profits of the double-sort strategies due to data snooping?

An important problem when evaluating a large set of trading rules is data mining or

snooping. The mining occurs when a set of data is used more than once for inference or

model selection. To deal with this problem we implement White’s (2000) Reality Check

for data snooping (RC) and the test for Superior Predictive Ability (SPA) developed by

Hansen (2005). Both tests are built on the same framework: m alternative decision rules

(point forecasts or trading rules) are compared to a benchmark, where performance is

defined in terms of expected loss. The question of interest is whether any alternative

trading rule is better than the benchmark. The complexity of this exercise arises from the

need to control for the full set of alternatives. The latter leads to a composite null

hypothesis and a t-statistic whose (asymptotic) distribution is non-standard and requires


17
   Erb and Harvey (2006) define the diversification return as the difference between the compound
return of a fixed-weight portfolio and the weighted average of the compound returns of the individual
constituents of the portfolio.



                                                 24
bootstrapping. Compared to RC, the SPA test is based on a studentized test statistic and a

sample dependent distribution under the null hypothesis, both of which make it more

powerful and less sensitive to the inclusion of poor and irrelevant alternatives.

     The paper considers k=1,2,…,m (m=55) active trading rules: 13 momentum-only

strategies (Section 3), 12 TS-only strategies (Section 4), 6 combined double-sort

strategies (Section 5) and 24 volume-based strategies (Section 4.1) alongside the passive

long-only benchmark rule represented by k=0. Let rk,t denote the month t returns of

trading rule k. The returns are mapped into a “loss” by means of a linear function, on one

hand, and two nonlinear (exponential) functions with different degrees of curvature, on

the other. The former is Lk,t=max(rt)-rk,t , where max(rt) is the highest return in the full set

of strategies k=0,1,…,m. The two nonlinear functions are Lk,t=1/exp(rk,t) for =1 and 2.

The qualitative ranking of the strategies according to these loss functions essentially

corresponds to the ranking based on their alpha measures. Thus the sample performance

of trading rule k=1,…,m relative to the benchmark is given by dk,t≡L0,t-Lk,t over t=1,…,T

months. Strategy k is better than the benchmark if and only if E[dk,t]>0 where E[.] denotes

expected value. The null hypothesis is that the best of the m active strategies does not

outperform the benchmark, i.e. H0: E[dk,t]0, k=1,…,m.18 Table 9 reports the results.

                                  [Insert Table 9 around here]

     With all three loss functions, the t-statistic p-values (for the null hypothesis that the

‘best’ trading rule does not outperform the passive benchmark) and the consistent SPA

and RC statistic p-values (for the above H0 that takes into account the full set of m=55 of

trading rules) unanimously suggest rejection of the hypotheses at conventional

significance levels, thus confirming that TS1-Mom1-1 is a relatively successful trading rule.




18
   The implementation is based on the stationary bootstrap of Politis and Romano (1994) based on
B=10,000 pseudo time-series {dk,t*} for each k, which are resamples of dk,t constructed by combining
blocks with random lengths. The block-length is geometrically distributed according to q[0,1) so the
expected block-length is 1/q. Two typical values are used, q={0.2, 0.5}, to robustify the results.


                                                 25
6.3. Performance evaluation using an augmented static model

The earlier multifactor regression model is now augmented with 3 additional systematic

risk factors: a) the returns of the US$ effective (vis-à-vis main currencies) exchange rate

index, b) unexpected inflation (UI), and c) unexpected change in US industrial production

(UIP). The unexpected component at month t is measured as the difference between the

economic variable at t and its most recent 12-month moving average.19

     The coefficient estimates and significance t-ratios, set out in Appendix A1, are in line

with our previous findings. First, for all three classes of strategies, the long-short portfolio

returns are for the most part uncorrelated with the risk factors. Second, there are abnormal

profits to be made from these active portfolio strategies; on average across those that

appear profitable at better than the 5% level, the  is 10.22% per annum for the

momentum-only signals, 10.09% for the TS-only signals and a more than two times

larger 21.18% for the combined double-sort signals.


6.4. Conditional performance evaluation

Another possible criticism is that the returns from the active strategies are a compensation

for time-varying risks (Chordia and Shivakumar, 2002). To account for the latter we

estimate a conditional model that allows for the measures of risk and abnormal

performance in (1) to vary over time as a function of a vector of pre-specified zero-mean

information variables (Christopherson et al., 1998).20




19
   The correlations between the six risk factors range from -1.3% between UIP and S&P500 to 24%
between LB and S&P500. So multicollinearity is not deemed to be an issue.
20
   The information variables used (as proxies for the business cycle) include the 1-month lagged term
spread and default spread. Term spread is the difference between the redemption yield on US 30-year
Treasury benchmark bonds and the US 3-month T-bill rate. Default spread is measured as the yield
difference between Moody’s Baa and Aaa-rated corporate bonds. As in Kat and Miffre (2008), two sets
of additional mean-zero conditioning variables are considered. Accordingly, each alpha varies over
time conditionally on the (lagged) return of the strategy under review. Likewise, the betas are allowed
to change as a function of the previous month’s realization of the systematic risk factor.




                                                 26
     The results, reported in Appendix A2, indicate the presence of time variation in the

risk and performance measures of the multifactor model (1). In particular, at the 5% level,

the hypothesis of constant parameters is rejected for 12 out of 13 momentum-only

strategies, for 8 out of 12 TS-only strategies and for 5 out of 6 double-sort strategies. In

principle, these results suggest that restricting the measures of risk and abnormal

performance to be constant as in model (1), instead of conditioning them on past

information, might lead to poor conclusions on risk-adjusted performance. However, after

allowing for time dependence in the regression parameters of model (1), the average

alpha of the active strategies is of similar magnitude as previously reported. A total of 19

out of 31 strategies have positive and significant  at the 5% level in Appendix A2 versus

23 in Tables 2, 4 and 6. Most importantly the risk-adjusted abnormal returns of the

combined double-sort strategies remain highly significant. Clearly, the superior

performance uncovered is not merely a compensation for time-varying risks.


6.5. Performance over an extended dataset

In this section we test the robustness of the results to the unprecedented high levels of

volatility experienced since January 2007 and to the slowdown in the real economy

driven by the credit crunch.21 Bearing this in mind, we extend the dataset until the end of

November 2008 and report in Table 10 the performance of two single-sort strategies

(Mom1-1 and TS1), one double-sort strategy (TS1-Mom1-1) and the long-only equally-

weighted benchmark. The performance of the single and double-sort strategies is as good

over the extended sample as it was over the previous period (January 1979-January 2007)

which suggests the main results presented in the paper are not sample-specific. In

particular, the annualized mean returns of Mom1-1, TS1, TS1-Mom1-1, the benchmark and

the S&P-GSCI equal 18.31%, 14.65%, 23.15%, 2.42% and 2.70%, respectively.


21
  This robustness check was added to the first version of the paper following a referee’s suggestion
which we gratefully acknowledge.


                                                27
                                 [Insert Table 10 around here]

    Once again, the higher returns are not solely a compensation for the risks taken as

borne out by the significantly positive (at the 1% level) alphas of the long-short

portfolios. Most noteworthy, over the sample February 2007-November 2008, Mom1-1,

TS1 and TS1-Mom1-1 present positive reward-to-risk ratios of 1.23, 1.23 and 0.86, while

the reward-to-risk ratios of the benchmark and the S&P-GSCI are negative at,

respectively, -0.50 and -0.31.


7. Conclusions

This article provides a thorough analysis of the risk and performance of three types of

active strategies in commodity futures markets. Following the momentum signal of

Jegadeesh and Titman (1993) and Miffre and Rallis (2007), the first class of strategies

simply buys commodities with the best past performance (winners) and shorts

commodities with the worst past performance (losers). Following the term structure

signaling approach of Erb and Harvey (2006) and Gorton and Rouwenhorst (2006), the

second type of strategies tactically allocates wealth towards backwardated commodities

(with the highest roll-returns) and away from contangoed commodities (with the lowest

roll-returns). Given the low return correlations between the above two types of trading

rules, we propose a novel class of strategies that combines the momentum and term

structure signals in order to consistently buy commodities with the best past performance

(winners) and the highest roll-returns, and consistently short commodities with the worst

past performance (losers) and the lowest roll-returns. According to this double-sort

approach, active portfolio managers buy the commodities whose prices are expected to

appreciate the most over the following month and sell the commodities whose prices are

expected to depreciate the most.

    Three main conclusions emerge from the analysis. First, while the individual

momentum and term structure strategies perform well, the combined signals are more


                                              28
informative for tactically allocating wealth. On a yearly basis, the profitable momentum-

only (TS-only) strategies earn an average return of 10.53% (12.28%) or an alpha of

10.14% (12.66%). With an average return of 21.32% and an alpha of 21.02%, the

combined (double-sort) strategies are clearly superior. Over the same period, a passive

long-only portfolio of commodity futures earned 3.40%, while the S&P GSCI index

earned 3.62%. A robustness analysis suggests that the abnormal returns uncovered are not

an artifact of liquidity risk, data snooping, additional non-investable macroeconomic risk

factors or time-variation in risks. They are also robust to the market turbulence

experienced since January 2007.

    Second, the returns of these novel double-sort strategies are weakly correlated with

the returns of traditional asset classes, making them attractive candidates for inclusion in

well-diversified portfolios. This suggests that institutional investors may tactically add

commodity futures to their asset mix not solely to earn abnormal returns but also to

reduce the overall risk of their global equity and/or fixed-income portfolios.

    Third, because the strategies are carried out on a small cross-section of 37

commodity futures contracts that are easy to sell short and often liquid, the dynamic

double-sort investment approach proposed presents the additional appeal of being feasible

and cheap to implement. Net of plausible transaction costs, the double-sort strategies still

generate a yearly return of 20.71% or a yearly net alpha of 20.41% on average.

    The risk management analysis highlights the fact that the long-short double-sort

portfolios are substantially more risky than the long-only equally-weighted benchmark. In

order to reduce downside risk, asset managers could implement the double-sort trading

rules jointly with a stop-loss strategy. Accordingly, investors would opt for a double-sort

portfolio when its return is above a given acceptable target return, and risk-free Treasury-

bill futures contracts otherwise. A detailed analysis of the risk and performance of such a

strategy constitutes an interesting avenue for future research.




                                             29
References
Barberis, N, Schleifer, A., Vishny, R., 1998, A model of investor sentiment. Journal of
   Financial Economics 49, 307-343.
Basu, D., Oomen, R., Stremme, A., 2006, How to time the commodity market. Working
    paper, EDHEC Business School.
Bessembinder, H., 1992, Systematic risk, hedging pressure, and risk premiums in futures
   markets, Review of Financial Studies 5(4), 637-667.
Bodie, Z., Rosansky.,V., 1980, Risk and returns in commodity futures. Financial Analysts
      Journal May/June, 27-39.
Chan, L. K. C., Jegadeesh, N., Lakonishok, J., 1996, Momentum strategies. Journal of
     Finance 51, 1681-1713.
Chong, J., Miffre, J., 2010, Conditional correlation and volatility in commodity futures
      and traditional asset markets, Journal of Alternative Investments 12, 3, 61-75.
Chordia, T., Shivakumar, L., 2002, Momentum, business cycle, and time-varying
     expected returns. Journal of Finance 57, 985-1018.
Christopherson, J., Ferson, W., Glassman, D., 1998, Conditioning manager alphas on
      economic information: Another look at the persistence of performance. Review of
      Financial Studies 11, 111-142.
Conrad, J., Kaul, G., 1998, An anatomy of trading strategies. Review of Financial Studies
     11, 489-519.
Cootner, P., 1960, Returns to speculators: Telser vs. Keynes, Journal of Political
   Economy 68, 396-404.
Daniel, K, Hirshleifer, D., Subrahmanyam, A., 1998, Investor psychology and security
   market under- and overreactions. Journal of Finance 53, 1839-1885.
Erb, C., Harvey, C., 2006, The strategic and tactical value of commodity futures.
      Financial Analysts Journal 62 2, 69-97.
Fuertes, A-M., Miffre, J., Tan, W., 2009, Momentum profits, non-normality risks and the
    business cycle. Applied Financial Economics, 19, 935-953.
Greer, R. J., 1978, Conservative commodities: A key inflation hedge, Journal of Portfolio
    Management Summer, 26-29.
Gorton, G., Rouwenhorst, K., 2006, Facts and fantasies about commodity futures.
     Financial Analysts Journal 62 4, 86-93.
Gorton, G., Hayashi F, Rouwenhorst, K., 2008, The fundamentals of commodity futures
     returns, Yale ICF Working Paper No. 0708.



                                           30
Hansen, P. R., 2005, A test for superior predictive ability. Journal of Business and
     Economic Statistics 23, 365-380.
Hong, H., Lim, T., Stein, J., 2000, Bad news travels slowly: Size, analyst coverage, and
   the profitability of momentum strategies. Journal of Finance 55, 265-295.
Hong, H., Stein, J., 1999, A unified theory of underreaction, momentum trading and
   overreaction in asset markets. Journal of Finance 54, 2143-2184.
Jegadeesh, N., Titman, S., 1993, Returns to buying winners and selling losers:
      Implications for stock market efficiency. Journal of Finance 48, 65-91.
Jegadeesh, N., Titman, S., 2001, Profitability of momentum strategies: An evaluation of
      alternative explanations. Journal of Finance 56, 699-720.
Jensen, G., Johnson, R., Mercer, J., 2000, Efficient use of commodity futures in
     diversified portfolios. Journal of Futures Markets 20, 489-506.
Jensen, G., Johnson, R., Mercer, J., 2002, Tactical asset allocation and commodity
      futures. Journal of Portfolio Management Summer, 100-111.
Kat, H., Miffre, J., 2008, The impact of non-normality risks and tactical trading on hedge
      fund alphas, Journal of Alternative Investments, 10, 8-22.
Keynes, M, 1930, A Treatise on Money, II: The Applied Theory of Money, Edition
      Macmillan and Co. .
Korajczyk, R. A., Sadka, R., 2004, Are momentum profits robust to trading costs? Journal
     of Finance 59, 1039-1082.
Lee, C. M. C., Swaminathan, B., 2000, Price momentum and trading volume Journal of
     Finance 55, 2017-2069.
Lesmond, D. A., Schill, M. J., Zhou, C., 2004, The illusory nature of momentum profits.
      Journal of Financial Economics, 71, 349-380.
Li, X., Miffre, J., Brooks, C., O Sullivan, N., 2008, Momentum profits and time-varying
   unsystematic risk. Journal of Banking and Finance 32 4, 541-558.
Locke, P., and P. Venkatesh, 1997, Futures market transaction costs. Journal of Futures
      Markets 17, 229-245.
Marshall, B. R., Cahan, R. H., Cahan, J. M., 2008, Can commodity futures be profitably
      traded with quantitative market timing strategies? Journal of Banking and Finance,
      32(9), 1810-1819.
Miffre, J., Rallis, G., 2007, Momentum strategies in commodity futures markets. Journal
      of Banking and Finance 31(6), 1863-1886
Moskowitz, T. J., Grinblatt, M., 1999, Do industries explain momentum?. Journal of
      Finance 54, 1249-1290.



                                           31
Politis, D.N., Romano, J.P., 1994, The stationary bootstrap. Journal of the American
      Statistical Association 89, 1303-1313.
Sadka, R., 2006, Momentum and post-earnings-announcement drift anomalies: The role
     of liquidity risk. Journal of Financial Economics 80 2, 309-349.
Wang, C., Yu, M., 2004, Trading activity and price reversals in futures markets. Journal
      of Banking and Finance 28, 1337-1361.
White, H., 2000, A reality check for data snooping. Econometrica 68, 1097-1126.




                                           32
Table 1. Momentum Strategies: Summary Statistics
                                                      R= 1                                    R=3                                    R =6                       R =12
                                                                                                                                                                                 Benchmark
                                      H =1     H =3          H =6   H =12   H =1       H =3         H =6       H =12      H =1       H =3       H =6        H =1     H =3

Panel A: Long (Winner) Portfolios
Annualized arithmetic mean             0.1239 0.0982 0.0762 0.0580           0.1496 0.1017 0.0752               0.0596     0.0860     0.0684     0.0706     0.1072     0.0634       0.0340
                                        (3.04)  (2.97)  (2.59)  (2.22)        (3.42)  (2.63)  (2.28)             (2.01)     (2.07)     (1.77)     (2.04)     (2.62)     (1.68)       (1.65)
Annualized geometric mean              0.1061 0.0860 0.0659 0.0497           0.1303 0.0838 0.0613               0.0487     0.0635     0.0484     0.0554     0.0875     0.0448       0.0283
Annualized volatility                  0.2158 0.1747 0.1542 0.1361           0.2309 0.2031 0.1730               0.1540     0.2184     0.2024     0.1805     0.2127     0.1953       0.1092
Annualized downside volatility (0%)    0.1224 0.1115 0.1025 0.0916           0.1359 0.1269 0.1164               0.1015     0.1400     0.1336     0.1182     0.1343     0.1298       0.0760
Reward/risk ratio                      0.5741 0.5624 0.4939 0.4260           0.6479 0.5006 0.4347               0.3874     0.3938     0.3379     0.3912     0.5038     0.3246       0.3112
Sortino ratio (0%)                     1.0118 0.8812 0.7435 0.6329           1.1011 0.8010 0.6459               0.5878     0.6141     0.5120     0.5974     0.7977     0.4886       0.4473
Skewness                               0.6963 -0.4185 -0.7691 -0.6082        0.2397 -0.1412 -0.9770            -0.4153    -0.2065    -0.4726    -0.4432    -0.1640    -0.4277      -0.5087
Kurtosis                               7.1451 8.4413 8.6200 6.5364           8.9946 10.4714 12.0432             8.5724     8.5031     9.4365     8.8693    10.3702     8.9317       4.6578
99% VaR (Cornish-Fisher)               0.1612 0.1996 0.1753 0.1390           0.2272 0.2129 0.2138               0.1588     0.2142     0.2117     0.1876     0.2470     0.2219       0.0946
% of positive months                   0.5268 0.5749 0.5650 0.5415           0.5749 0.5482 0.5502               0.5511     0.5076     0.5076     0.5399     0.5569     0.5201       0.5536
Maximum drawdown                      -0.4622 -0.5449 -0.5296 -0.5628       -0.6003 -0.5955 -0.5633            -0.6151    -0.5091    -0.6267    -0.6000    -0.6985    -0.7206      -0.5215
Max 12M rolling return                 0.9943 0.5437 0.5859 0.4716           0.7904 0.7338 0.7119               0.6330     0.9343     0.8597     0.8711     0.9019     0.9330       0.3507
Min 12M rolling return                -0.4293 -0.3906 -0.3816 -0.3833       -0.4374 -0.4564 -0.4410            -0.3792    -0.3767    -0.3816    -0.3428    -0.6330    -0.4461      -0.3297
Portfolio turnover (p.a.)             10.6802 10.6802 10.6797 10.6797        9.0895 9.0895 9.0895               9.0895     8.5870     8.5870     8.5870     8.2331     8.2331       6.3438

Panel B: Short (Loser) Portfolios
Annualized arithmetic mean            -0.0530 -0.0048 0.0050 -0.0039        -0.0093     0.0037       0.0066    -0.0007    -0.0265    -0.0171    -0.0231    -0.0461    -0.0212       0.0340
                                       (-1.46) (-0.18)  (0.19) (-0.16)       (-0.27)     (0.12)       (0.23)    (-0.03)    (-0.75)    (-0.53)    (-0.74)    (-1.33)    (-0.64)       (1.65)
Annualized geometric mean             -0.0692 -0.0149 -0.0043 -0.0117       -0.0254    -0.0099      -0.0044    -0.0101    -0.0427    -0.0308    -0.0355    -0.0605    -0.0353       0.0283
Annualized volatility                  0.1924 0.1434 0.1359 0.1252           0.1825     0.1671       0.1485     0.1371     0.1860     0.1694     0.1618     0.1799     0.1719       0.1092
Annualized downside volatility (0%)    0.1420 0.1010 0.0971 0.0930           0.1232     0.1095       0.1025     0.0984     0.1295     0.1165     0.1137     0.1318     0.1214       0.0760
Reward/risk ratio                     -0.2755 -0.0335 0.0367 -0.0308        -0.0512     0.0223       0.0442    -0.0054    -0.1422    -0.1008    -0.1429    -0.2563    -0.1232       0.3112
Sortino ratio (0%)                    -0.3734 -0.0476 0.0513 -0.0415        -0.0758     0.0340       0.0640    -0.0075    -0.2043    -0.1466    -0.2033    -0.3500    -0.1745       0.4473
Skewness                               0.3138 0.1464 -0.1381 -0.3410         0.6341     0.8100       0.1398    -0.0526     0.4766     0.5282     0.4640     0.2016     0.3508      -0.5087
Kurtosis                               5.8259 4.0713 3.8899 3.9527           6.0693     6.6526       4.5905     4.3780     5.4499     5.6114     5.8770     4.3868     4.8411       4.6578
99% VaR (Cornish-Fisher)               0.1573 0.0906 0.0958 0.0959           0.1159     0.1099       0.1072     0.0952     0.1310     0.1135     0.1107     0.1163     0.1064       0.0946
% of positive months                   0.4583 0.4820 0.5196 0.5292           0.4910     0.4970       0.4954     0.5263     0.4804     0.4802     0.4724     0.4431     0.4737       0.5536
Maximum drawdown                      -0.9325 -0.6887 -0.6456 -0.6553       -0.7904    -0.7414      -0.7175    -0.6822    -0.8379    -0.7617    -0.7904    -0.8791    -0.7812      -0.5215
Max 12M rolling return                 0.6314 0.3487 0.3511 0.2994           0.6410     0.4555       0.3461     0.3563     0.4433     0.4709     0.4144     0.4480     0.4070       0.3507
Min 12M rolling return                -0.4694 -0.3137 -0.3663 -0.3774       -0.4322    -0.4240      -0.4081    -0.4049    -0.4885    -0.4621    -0.4690    -0.5367    -0.4802      -0.3297
Portfolio turnover (p.a.)             10.5459 10.5459 10.5432 10.5432        8.6457     8.6457       8.6457     8.6457     7.6420     7.6420     7.6420     7.1694     7.1694       6.3438

Panel C: Long-Short (Momentum) Portfolios
Annualized arithmetic mean             0.1769 0.1030 0.0711 0.0618           0.1589     0.0980       0.0686     0.0604     0.1125     0.0855     0.0937     0.1533     0.0846       0.0340
                                        (3.48)  (3.24)  (3.22)  (3.75)        (3.06)     (2.27)       (2.15)     (2.39)     (2.32)     (1.94)     (2.42)     (3.04)     (1.87)       (1.65)
Annualized geometric mean              0.1511 0.0927 0.0664 0.0597           0.1290     0.0744       0.0559     0.0531     0.0833     0.0606     0.0759     0.1262     0.0586       0.0283
Annualized volatility                  0.2691 0.1676 0.1160 0.0857           0.2741     0.2272       0.1674     0.1309     0.2545     0.2301     0.2020     0.2623     0.2349       0.1092
Annualized downside volatility (0%)    0.1565 0.1038 0.0727 0.0526           0.1642     0.1484       0.1096     0.0845     0.1602     0.1493     0.1283     0.1567     0.1503       0.0760
Reward/risk ratio                      0.6572 0.6147 0.6134 0.7210           0.5797     0.4311       0.4100     0.4614     0.4420     0.3714     0.4642     0.5842     0.3601       0.3112
Sortino ratio (0%)                     1.1304 0.9920 0.9789 1.1759           0.9680     0.6599       0.6262     0.7150     0.7021     0.5723     0.7305     0.9783     0.5630       0.4473
Skewness                               0.4158 -0.1414 -0.1641 -0.2604        0.3032    -0.0867      -0.2926    -0.2159     0.1183    -0.0026     0.0125     0.2765     0.0583      -0.5087
Kurtosis                               5.6403 6.1104 7.7597 5.9013           5.6361     7.3088       7.9284     6.5852     5.0558     5.3710     5.2940     4.7840     4.6387       4.6578
99% VaR (Cornish-Fisher)               0.2161 0.1482 0.1019 0.0819           0.2011     0.1822       0.1356     0.1045     0.1797     0.1545     0.1354     0.1818     0.1624       0.0946
% of positive months                   0.5714 0.5958 0.5982 0.6031           0.5569     0.5843       0.5502     0.5387     0.5680     0.5502     0.5337     0.5723     0.5449       0.5536
Max runup (consecutive)             0.783389 0.47194 0.4216 0.2456           0.9138     0.8990       0.5543     0.3805     1.0101     0.8344     0.5509     0.8997     0.5793       0.3116
Runup length (months)                        2       4       4      11             4          4            4         11          4          4          3          4          4            9
Maximum drawdown                      -0.6235 -0.4046 -0.2098 -0.1901       -0.6708    -0.4941      -0.4995    -0.3203    -0.6767    -0.6680    -0.4159    -0.5887    -0.5387      -0.5215
Drawdown length (months)                    96      24      19      18            28         90           52         18         97         52         49         53         18         0.78
Valley to recovery (months)                 19      40      31      28            65         53           76         36       116        118          63         43         36          129
Max 12M rolling return                 1.0857 0.5632 0.4917 0.4358           0.9174     0.9745       0.8805     0.7898     1.0519     1.0610     1.0700     1.2360     1.1251       0.3507
Min 12M rolling return                -0.5027 -0.3102 -0.1963 -0.1439       -0.5038    -0.3688      -0.3569    -0.2859    -0.4289    -0.3560    -0.3320    -0.4928    -0.4570      -0.3297
Portfolio turnover (p.a.)            10.6130 10.6130 10.6115 10.6115         8.8676     8.8676       8.8676     8.8676     8.1145     8.1145     8.1145     7.7013     7.7013       6.3438
Net return                             0.1699 0.0960 0.0641 0.0548           0.1531     0.0921       0.0628     0.0545     0.1071     0.0801     0.0884     0.1482     0.0795       0.0319

The table reports summary statistics for the monthly returns of the long, short and long-short momentum portfolios. R is the
ranking period in month and H the holding period. Benchmark refers to a long-only passive portfolio that equally-weights all
37 commodities. Significance t-ratios for the average return per annum are reported in parentheses; significance at the 5% level
or better is denoted in bold.

                                                                                          33
Table 2. Momentum Strategies: Risk-Adjusted Performance
                                 R= 1                                         R=3                                      R =6                       R =12
                H =1      H =3          H =6   H =12       H =1        H =3         H =6        H =12       H =1       H =3       H =6        H =1     H =3

Panel A: Long (Winner) Portfolios
Annualized    0.1032 0.0744 0.0513            0.0382      0.1206      0.0720       0.0490      0.0383      0.0551     0.0407     0.0472      0.0823 0.0357
                 (2.85)   (2.95)   (2.31)         (2.19)      (3.29)     (2.25)        (1.87)      (1.81)     (1.58)     (1.27)      (1.71)      (2.49)  (1.24)
B             -0.1352 -0.1549 -0.1448         -0.1481     -0.0382     -0.1436      -0.1268     -0.1049     -0.0937    -0.1203    -0.1334     -0.1120 -0.0127
                (-0.77)  (-1.28)  (-1.41)        (-1.75)     (-0.22)    (-0.95)       (-1.03)     (-0.92)    (-0.56)    (-0.81)     (-1.07)     (-0.70) (-0.09)
M              0.0462 0.1116 0.1568            0.1228      0.0829      0.1747       0.1691      0.1115      0.1574     0.1612     0.1324      0.1001 0.1113
                 (0.61)   (2.22)   (3.12)         (3.59)      (1.14)     (2.43)        (2.66)      (2.35)     (2.07)     (2.28)      (2.19)      (1.54)  (1.97)
C              0.6133 0.6400 0.5937            0.5697      0.7322      0.6951       0.6406      0.6283      0.7216     0.6919     0.6477      0.7253 0.7239
                 (7.05) (15.71) (13.68)         (20.32)     (12.39)      (9.94)      (10.69)     (12.81)      (9.64)     (9.99)    (10.62)     (13.65) (15.70)
R2              0.2501 0.4312 0.4910            0.5691      0.3147      0.3828       0.4474      0.5341      0.3528     0.3759     0.4123      0.3660 0.4355

Panel B: Short (Loser) Portfolios
Annualized    -0.0741 -0.0227 -0.0136        -0.0189     -0.0258     -0.0140      -0.0096     -0.0112     -0.0502    -0.0347    -0.0401     -0.0611 -0.0322
                 (-2.38)  (-1.03) (-0.69)        (-1.04)    (-0.81)     (-0.50)       (-0.40)     (-0.51)    (-1.57)    (-1.21)     (-1.47)    (-1.90) (-1.05)
B              -0.1596 -0.1867 -0.1906        -0.1972     -0.2307     -0.1860      -0.1920     -0.2672     -0.0621    -0.1254    -0.1528     -0.1993 -0.2645
                 (-1.09)  (-1.82) (-2.02)        (-2.24)    (-1.51)     (-1.38)       (-1.68)     (-2.42)    (-0.41)    (-0.92)     (-1.15)    (-1.28) (-1.71)
M               0.1406 0.1496 0.1301           0.1298      0.1816      0.1463       0.1317      0.1362      0.1878     0.1171     0.1440      0.1746 0.1764
                  (2.04)   (3.60)  (3.32)         (3.64)     (2.87)      (2.61)        (2.79)      (3.16)     (2.97)     (2.07)      (2.69)     (2.77)  (2.93)
C               0.5161 0.4487 0.4888           0.4592      0.3997      0.4369       0.4537      0.4285      0.4555     0.4588     0.4484      0.3892 0.3773
                  (7.42) (10.50) (15.37)        (15.75)      (7.77)      (9.60)      (11.75)     (12.18)      (8.86)     (9.91)    (10.22)      (7.53)  (7.67)
R2               0.2339 0.3326 0.4307           0.4489      0.1699      0.2291       0.3076      0.3326      0.2069     0.2350     0.2537      0.1627 0.1715

Panel C: Long-Short (Momentum) Portfolios
Annualized    0.1772 0.0972 0.0648 0.0570                 0.1464     0.0861       0.0587       0.0495      0.1053    0.0753      0.0873      0.1434 0.0679
                 (3.44)  (2.99)  (2.83)    (3.49)            (2.82)     (1.99)       (1.84)       (2.00)      (2.17)    (1.71)      (2.24)      (2.87)  (1.52)
B              0.0243 0.0319 0.0458 0.0491                 0.1925     0.0424       0.0651       0.1622     -0.0316    0.0051      0.0194      0.0873 0.2518
                 (0.10)  (0.22)  (0.41)    (0.62)            (0.80)     (0.22)       (0.43)       (1.30)     (-0.14)    (0.02)      (0.10)      (0.36)  (1.12)
M             -0.0943 -0.0380 0.0267 -0.0070              -0.0987     0.0283       0.0375      -0.0247     -0.0304    0.0441     -0.0116     -0.0745 -0.0651
                (-0.92) (-0.56)  (0.57)   (-0.22)           (-0.87)     (0.32)       (0.59)      (-0.51)     (-0.32)    (0.51)     (-0.15)     (-0.76) (-0.74)
C              0.0972 0.1913 0.1049 0.1106                 0.3325     0.2582       0.1869       0.1998      0.2661    0.2331      0.1994      0.3362 0.3466
                 (1.17)  (2.68)  (2.29)    (4.20)            (2.65)     (2.50)       (3.63)       (5.04)      (3.41)    (3.28)      (3.18)      (4.18)  (4.85)
R2             -0.0025 0.0329 0.0193 0.0441                 0.0403     0.0326       0.0324       0.0688      0.0259    0.0242      0.0215      0.0440 0.0633


The table reports coefficient estimates from (1).  measures abnormal performance, B, M and C measure the sensitivities of returns to the excess
returns on Lehman Aggregate US total return bond index, the S&P500 composite index and the S&P GSCI, respectively. Significance t-ratios are in
parentheses. R is the ranking period in month and H the holding period. The last row of each panel reports the adjusted goodness of fit statistic.
Significance at the 5% level or better is denoted in bold.



                                                                          34
Table 3. Term Structure Strategies: Summary Statistics
                                                TS 1                            TS 2                            TS 3,i=2                    TS 3,i=4                    TS 3,i=7                    TS 3,i=10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Benchmark
                                      L          S         L-S         L         S         L-S          L         S        L-S      L         S        L-S      L         S        L-S      L         S         L-S

Panel A: End-of-Month Returns
Annualized arithmetic mean           0.0849    -0.0560     0.1410    0.0360    -0.0416 0.0776         0.0886          0.1388
                                                                                                                -0.0465           0.0945          0.1339
                                                                                                                                            -0.0339           0.0808          0.0946
                                                                                                                                                                        -0.0070           0.0916     0.0013  0.0982       0.0340
                                      (2.39)    (-1.63)     (3.13)    (1.05)    (-1.22)  (1.73)        (2.48)    (-1.42)
                                                                                                                       (3.08)      (2.72)    (-1.02)
                                                                                                                                                   (3.04)      (2.33)    (-0.21)
                                                                                                                                                                               (2.12)      (2.60)     (0.04)  (2.16)       (1.65)
Annualized geometric mean            0.0697    -0.0699     0.1173    0.0200    -0.0562 0.0501         0.0733    -0.0598
                                                                                                                      0.1163      0.0808    -0.0483
                                                                                                                                                  0.1125      0.0662    -0.0223
                                                                                                                                                                              0.0688      0.0770    -0.0142  0.0719       0.0283
Annualized volatility                0.1877     0.1822     0.2384    0.1812     0.1804 0.2379         0.1894     0.1736
                                                                                                                      0.2381      0.1839     0.1756
                                                                                                                                                  0.2328      0.1835     0.1761
                                                                                                                                                                              0.2366      0.1868     0.1770  0.2402       0.1092
Annualized downside volatility (0%) 0.1170      0.1317     0.1580    0.1166     0.1283 0.1593         0.1136     0.1283
                                                                                                                      0.1462      0.1082     0.1299
                                                                                                                                                  0.1436      0.1097     0.1257
                                                                                                                                                                              0.1526      0.1127     0.1245  0.1532       0.0760
Reward/risk ratio                    0.4525    -0.3074     0.5913    0.1986    -0.2306 0.3261         0.4678    -0.2678
                                                                                                                      0.5829      0.5140    -0.1929
                                                                                                                                                  0.5751      0.4402    -0.0398
                                                                                                                                                                              0.3998      0.4904     0.0074  0.4089       0.3112
Sortino ratio (0%)                   0.7260    -0.4254     0.8920    0.3086    -0.3243 0.4867         0.7799    -0.3624
                                                                                                                      0.9493      0.8733    -0.2608
                                                                                                                                                  0.9325      0.7365    -0.0558
                                                                                                                                                                              0.6196      0.8126     0.0106  0.6412       0.4473
Skewness                             0.2174     1.0354    -0.6958    0.4327     0.4725 -0.1810        0.3380     0.3643
                                                                                                                      0.0012      0.4399     0.0078
                                                                                                                                                  0.0996      0.4895     0.0848
                                                                                                                                                                              0.0399      0.3357     0.0787  0.1120      -0.5087
Kurtosis                             4.3603    10.4533     8.0891    4.2135     4.4392 4.5240         3.9897     5.7901
                                                                                                                      4.7753      4.3885     3.6289
                                                                                                                                                  3.9793      4.7754     4.0431
                                                                                                                                                                              3.8868      4.7839     3.5449  3.8470       4.6578
99% VaR (Cornish-Fisher)             0.1341     0.1540     0.2662    0.1166     0.1166 0.1932         0.1242     0.1340
                                                                                                                      0.1891      0.1200     0.1254
                                                                                                                                                  0.1670      0.1218     0.1277
                                                                                                                                                                              0.1715      0.1328     0.1226  0.1695       0.0946
% of positive months                 0.5595     0.4821     0.5774    0.5149     0.4583 0.5506         0.5327     0.4792
                                                                                                                      0.5804      0.5417     0.4762
                                                                                                                                                  0.5685      0.5327     0.5060
                                                                                                                                                                              0.5387      0.5476     0.5000  0.5476       0.5536
Max runup (consecutive)                                    0.9145                       0.5665                        0.8172                      0.8638                      0.7473                         0.8839       0.3116
Runup length (months)                                           13                           10                             5                          10                          10                             10            9
Maximum drawdown                    -0.4973    -0.8936    -0.5753    -0.6544   -0.8923 -0.4740       -0.4793 -0.8491 -0.5398     -0.4918 -0.8384 -0.5852     -0.5528 -0.7610 -0.7304     -0.5872    -0.7725 -0.7573      -0.5215
Drawdown length (months)                                        36                           73                            12                          92                        117                            117            78
Valley to recovery (months)                                     84                           15                          146                           65                          94                             95         129
Max 12M rolling return               0.7333     0.6767     0.8959     0.6304    0.4338 0.9807         0.8278 0.8729 1.4684        0.7282 0.7414 1.0763        0.7342 0.7505 0.9694        0.7233     0.8592 1.1156        0.3507
Min 12M rolling return              -0.4214    -0.5132    -0.4749    -0.4264   -0.5049 -0.3662       -0.3227 -0.4898 -0.5398     -0.3147 -0.5266 -0.4614     -0.3923 -0.5000 -0.4760     -0.4158    -0.5179 -0.4804      -0.3297
Portfolio turnover (p.a.)            8.7938     7.9433     8.3686     8.1743    6.9075 7.5409        11.7950 10.9269 11.3609     15.3782 14.7334 15.0558     19.1505 19.0273 19.0889     22.0784    22.8856 22.4820       6.3438
Net return                                                 0.1354                       0.0726                        0.1313                      0.1239                      0.0820                         0.0834       0.0319

Panel B: 15th-of-Month Returns
Annualized arithmetic mean           0.1226    -0.0147     0.1410    0.0580    -0.0026     0.0602     0.1108 0.0007 0.1120        0.0972  0.0226 0.0767       0.0827  0.0617 0.0263       0.0922     0.0551  0.0412       0.0507
                                      (3.71)    (-0.44)     (3.36)    (1.80)    (-0.08)     (1.40)     (3.28)  (0.02)  (2.61)      (2.91)  (0.69)  (1.79)      (2.35)  (1.90)  (0.58)      (2.70)     (1.71)  (0.95)       (2.43)
Annualized geometric mean            0.1130    -0.0303     0.1223    0.0446    -0.0184     0.0352     0.0993 -0.0146 0.0895       0.0849  0.0078 0.0522       0.0674  0.0482 -0.0027      0.0788     0.0414  0.0152       0.0455
Annualized volatility                0.1748     0.1784     0.2220    0.1709     0.1779     0.2274     0.1785 0.1762 0.2266        0.1768  0.1731 0.2265       0.1866  0.1721 0.2400       0.1808     0.1706  0.2289       0.1105
Annualized downside volatility (0%) 0.1052      0.1254     0.1408    0.1061     0.1267     0.1488     0.1066 0.1202 0.1484        0.1062  0.1143 0.1497       0.1174  0.1061 0.1664       0.1103     0.1119  0.1543       0.0741
Reward/risk ratio                    0.7015    -0.0825     0.6351    0.3395    -0.0145     0.2646     0.6206 0.0041 0.4942        0.5494  0.1308 0.3386       0.4431  0.3586 0.1094       0.5099     0.3232  0.1799       0.4588
Sortino ratio (0%)                   1.1658    -0.1173     1.0010    0.5472    -0.0204     0.4044     1.0392 0.0061 0.7547        0.9151  0.1981 0.5122       0.7047  0.5820 0.1578       0.8362     0.4927  0.2670       0.6842
Skewness                             0.0325     0.1271    -0.3655    0.6334    -0.1171     0.2578     0.1638 0.2388 -0.3511       0.2082  0.2790 -0.1009      0.1049  0.4518 -0.0452      0.2339    -0.0378  0.1007      -0.4990
Kurtosis                             4.2516     8.1323     7.3440    7.7391     5.4984     4.4107     3.9160 5.9905 4.7186        3.7999  4.5979 3.4036       4.0192  4.0863 3.3857       4.0364     4.2293  3.5411       5.1919
99% VaR (Cornish-Fisher)             0.1314     0.1776     0.2295    0.1399     0.1543     0.1608     0.1245 0.1446 0.1931        0.1200  0.1236 0.1633       0.1342  0.1082 0.1701       0.1244     0.1305  0.1573       0.0997
% of positive months                 0.5833     0.4762     0.5923    0.5179     0.5089     0.5387     0.5714 0.4970 0.5565        0.5446  0.5119 0.5417       0.5595  0.5327 0.4970       0.5804     0.5387  0.5089       0.5714
Max runup (consecutive)                                    0.8203                          0.7861                     0.7545                      0.5002                      0.6091                         0.5101       0.3373
Runup length (months)                                            5                              10                          5                          10                          11                              3            9
Maximum drawdown                    -0.3416    -0.7988    -0.6226    -0.4578 -0.7898      -0.5369    -0.3736 -0.7479 -0.5735     -0.3705 -0.5889 -0.5998     -0.4531 -0.5128 -0.7623     -0.3999    -0.5029 -0.6678      -0.3893
Drawdown length (months)                                        80                            100                          87                          89                          89                             89           73
Valley to recovery (months)                                     82                              80                         93                        122                         170                            166            50
Max 12M rolling return               0.7696     0.7443     1.1367     0.7427 0.4323        0.8793     0.7675 0.7249 1.0141        0.6171 0.6390 0.8055        0.6412 0.8368 0.7476        0.6010     0.6347 0.6896        0.4328
Min 12M rolling return              -0.3416    -0.4415    -0.5266    -0.3290 -0.4490      -0.4301    -0.3489 -0.4382 -0.4642     -0.3322 -0.4177 -0.4230     -0.3446 -0.3922 -0.5174     -0.2844    -0.3989 -0.4243      -0.2995
Portfolio turnover (p.a.)            8.8770     8.1175     8.4972     8.0808 6.7630        7.4219    11.9117 11.3077 11.6097     15.5363 15.2869 15.4116     19.4744 19.8775 19.6760     22.3437    23.8502 23.0969       6.3395
Net return                                                 0.1354                          0.0553                     0.1043                      0.0665                      0.0133                         0.0259       0.0486


TS1 and TS3,i use the front-end of the term structure to measure roll-returns, while TS2 uses the whole term structure, i is the number of rebalancing instances in a month. L, S and L-S
stand for long, short and long-short, respectively. Benchmark refers to a long-only passive portfolio that equally-weights all 37 commodities. Significance t-ratios for the average return
per annum in parentheses. Significance at the 5% level or better is denoted in bold.



                                                                                                                35
Table 4. Term Structure Strategies: Risk-Adjusted Performance

                       TS 1                            TS 2                             TS 3,i=2                           TS 3,i=4                          TS 3,i =7                          TS 3,i=10
                L       S        L-S        L           S         L-S         L           S         L-S          L           S         L-S         L           S         L-S          L           S          L-S

Panel A: End-of-Month Returns
Annualized  0.0662 -0.0746 0.1408        0.0173     -0.0493     0.0666     0.0728     -0.0669     0.1437      0.0767     -0.0542     0.1368     0.0617     -0.0297      0.0985     0.0715     -0.0188      0.0985
                (2.31) (-2.34)  (3.13)       (0.62)    (-1.48)     (1.51)      (2.57)    (-2.22)     (3.21)       (2.82)    (-1.78)     (3.12)      (2.27)    (-0.97)      (2.22)      (2.57)    (-0.61)      (2.19)
B           -0.1780 -0.0427 -0.1352      -0.2532     -0.3099     0.0567    -0.2939      0.0133    -0.3171     -0.1553     -0.0083    -0.1578    -0.0882      0.0482     -0.1434    -0.0969     -0.0071     -0.0933
               (-1.29) (-0.28) (-0.62)      (-1.88)    (-1.94)     (0.27)     (-2.00)     (0.09)    (-1.48)      (-1.11)    (-0.06)    (-0.75)     (-0.67)     (0.33)     (-0.67)     (-0.72)    (-0.05)     (-0.43)
M            0.0101 0.0997 -0.0895        0.0856      0.1620    -0.0764     0.0065      0.1127    -0.1019     -0.0355      0.1097    -0.1431    -0.0423      0.1370     -0.1792    -0.0282      0.1314     -0.1606
                (0.18)  (1.57) (-1.00)       (1.54)     (2.45)    (-0.87)      (0.12)     (1.88)    (-1.15)      (-0.66)     (1.82)    (-1.65)     (-0.85)     (2.25)     (-2.03)     (-0.51)     (2.13)     (-1.80)
C            0.6383 0.4126 0.2257         0.5948      0.2336     0.3612     0.6496      0.4034     0.2419      0.6570      0.4215     0.2296     0.6500      0.4054      0.2385     0.6649      0.3869      0.2762
              (13.79)   (8.01)  (3.10)     (13.14)      (4.35)     (5.09)    (11.87)      (8.28)     (3.35)     (12.19)      (8.61)     (3.25)    (11.63)      (8.21)      (3.33)    (14.82)      (7.71)      (3.81)
R2            0.3615 0.1613 0.0243         0.3450      0.0686     0.0654     0.3744      0.1733     0.0368      0.3996      0.1838     0.0332     0.3901      0.1754      0.0385     0.3940      0.1565      0.0436

Panel B: 15th-of-Month Returns
Annualized   0.1035 -0.0427 0.1497       0.0356     -0.0173     0.0523     0.0925     -0.0240     0.1183      0.0816      0.0035     0.0806     0.0647      0.0464      0.0234     0.0730      0.0358      0.0420
                 (4.00) (-1.48)  (3.54)      (1.43)    (-0.54)     (1.24)      (3.49)    (-0.81)     (2.77)      (2.98)      (0.12)     (1.89)      (2.33)     (1.52)      (0.52)      (2.74)     (1.20)      (0.98)
B            -0.1657 0.0823 -0.2242      -0.0862     -0.1773     0.0967    -0.1899      0.0252    -0.2169     -0.2182     -0.0913    -0.1290    -0.2046     -0.1350     -0.0752    -0.1983     -0.0735     -0.1387
                (-1.33)  (0.59) (-1.10)     (-0.72)    (-1.15)     (0.48)     (-1.49)     (0.18)    (-1.06)     (-1.47)     (-0.64)    (-0.63)     (-1.49)    (-0.92)     (-0.35)     (-1.50)    (-0.51)     (-0.67)
M             0.0213 0.1416 -0.1233       0.0419      0.1850    -0.1391     0.0112      0.1626    -0.1484     -0.0105      0.1415    -0.1557     0.0032      0.1245     -0.1156     0.0369      0.1579     -0.1242
                 (0.41)  (2.47) (-1.47)      (0.85)     (2.89)    (-1.66)      (0.21)     (2.75)    (-1.75)     (-0.20)      (2.39)    (-1.84)      (0.06)     (2.06)     (-1.30)      (0.67)     (2.67)     (-1.46)
C             0.6252 0.5229 0.0947        0.6289      0.2967     0.3288     0.6341      0.4480     0.1860      0.6083      0.4095     0.1972     0.6484      0.3607      0.2897     0.6329      0.3805      0.2490
               (14.97) (11.21)   (1.39)    (15.69)      (5.71)     (4.84)    (14.81)      (9.32)     (2.70)      (9.79)      (8.49)     (2.86)    (12.16)      (7.34)      (4.00)    (11.66)      (7.93)      (3.59)
R2             0.4008 0.2819 0.0097        0.4230      0.1050     0.0637     0.3960      0.2180     0.0276      0.3729      0.1851     0.0278     0.3790      0.1439      0.0426     0.3856      0.1694      0.0372

The table reports coefficient estimates for equation (1).  measures abnormal performance, B, M and C measure the sensitivities of returns to the excess returns on Lehman
Aggregate US total return bond index, the S&P500 composite index and the S&P GSCI, respectively. Significance t-ratios are in parentheses. The last row of each panel reports the
adjusted goodness of fit statistic. TS1 and TS3,i use the front-end of the term structure to measure roll-returns, while TS2 uses the whole term structure, i is the number of rebalancing
instances in a month. L, S and L-S stand for long, short and long-short, respectively. Bold denotes significance at the 5% level or better.




                                                                                                          36
Table 5. Correlations between Momentum and Term Structure Returns
                          R =1                                 R =3                               R =6                   R = 12
                                                                                                                                        Average
              H =1     H =3 H =6        H = 12      H =1    H =3 H =6        H = 12      H =1     H =3     H =6       H =1 H =3
Panel A: End-of-Month Returns
TS 1         0.1628 0.1893 0.2912       0.3108     0.2279 0.3270 0.3437 0.3527           0.2967 0.3083 0.2940         0.2654 0.2992     0.2822
              (3.02) (3.51) (5.52)       (5.88)     (4.26) (6.28) (6.62) (6.75)           (5.64) (5.86) (5.54)         (4.95) (5.62)
TS 2         0.2926 0.3411 0.3766       0.5270     0.3989 0.4395 0.4433 0.5696           0.4480 0.4355 0.4448         0.5112 0.5335     0.4432
              (5.59) (6.61) (7.37)      (11.14)     (7.93) (8.89) (8.94) (12.42)          (9.09) (8.75) (8.94)        (10.69) (11.30)
TS 3,i=2     0.1914 0.1806 0.2755       0.3178     0.2309 0.2815 0.3402 0.3645           0.3082 0.3148 0.3208         0.3208 0.3252     0.2901
              (3.62) (3.35) (5.20)       (6.02)     (4.32) (5.33) (6.54) (7.01)           (5.88) (6.00) (6.10)         (6.09) (6.16)
TS 3,i=4     0.1916 0.1509 0.2625       0.3227     0.1899 0.2469 0.3196 0.3735           0.2927 0.3035 0.3319         0.3367 0.3327     0.2812
              (3.57) (2.78) (4.93)       (6.13)     (3.52) (4.63) (6.10) (7.21)           (5.55) (5.76) (6.33)         (6.43) (6.32)
TS 3,i=7     0.1958 0.1662 0.2249       0.3232     0.2075 0.2365 0.2888 0.3838           0.2840 0.2776 0.3064         0.3472 0.3418     0.2757
              (3.65) (3.07) (4.19)       (6.14)     (3.86) (4.42) (5.45) (7.45)           (5.37) (5.22) (5.79)         (6.65) (6.52)
TS 3,i=10    0.2142 0.1876 0.2650       0.3760     0.2397 0.2851 0.3447 0.4395           0.3243 0.3328 0.3736         0.3966 0.3947     0.3211
              (4.01) (3.48) (4.99)       (7.29)     (4.50) (5.40) (6.64) (8.77)           (6.22) (6.38) (7.25)         (7.76) (7.70)
Average      0.2081 0.2026 0.2826       0.3629     0.2491 0.3027 0.3467 0.4139           0.3256 0.3288 0.3452         0.3630 0.3712     0.3156
Minimum      0.1628 0.1509 0.2249       0.3108     0.1899 0.2365 0.2888 0.3527           0.2840 0.2776 0.2940         0.2654 0.2992     0.1509
Maximum      0.2926 0.3411 0.3766       0.5270     0.3989 0.4395 0.4433 0.5696           0.4480 0.4355 0.4448         0.5112 0.5335     0.5696
Panel B: 15th-of-Month Returns
TS 1          0.1092 0.1362 0.2091      0.2344     0.1767 0.2468 0.2060 0.2828           0.2140 0.1815 0.1772         0.2159 0.2222     0.2009
               (2.01) (2.50) (3.88)      (4.33)     (3.27) (4.63) (3.81) (5.28)           (3.97) (3.34) (3.24)         (3.97) (4.08)
TS 2          0.2306 0.3498 0.3655      0.4741     0.4090 0.4531 0.4059 0.5385           0.4420 0.3977 0.3990         0.4911 0.5065     0.4202
               (4.33) (6.80) (7.12)      (9.68)     (8.17) (9.23) (8.03) (11.45)          (8.94) (7.84) (7.83)        (10.13) (10.52)
TS 3,i=2      0.1857 0.1715 0.2451      0.3023     0.2170 0.2968 0.3072 0.3627           0.2590 0.2780 0.2821         0.2874 0.2987     0.2687
               (3.45) (3.17) (4.59)      (5.70)     (4.05) (5.65) (5.84) (6.97)           (4.86) (5.23) (5.29)         (5.39) (5.61)
TS 3,i=4      0.1839 0.1865 0.2607      0.3246     0.2415 0.3122 0.3404 0.4043           0.2860 0.3222 0.3337         0.3251 0.3483     0.2976
               (3.42) (3.46) (4.90)      (6.17)     (4.53) (5.97) (6.55) (7.92)           (5.41) (6.15) (6.37)         (6.18) (6.66)
TS 3,i=7      0.2242 0.2789 0.3377      0.4027     0.3203 0.3705 0.4027 0.4624           0.3458 0.3740 0.3793         0.3907 0.4097     0.3614
               (4.20) (5.29) (6.51)      (7.91)     (6.16) (7.25) (7.96) (9.34)           (6.68) (7.29) (7.38)         (7.63) (8.05)
TS 3,i=10     0.1850 0.2027 0.2739      0.3402     0.2572 0.3248 0.3418 0.4105           0.3039 0.3352 0.3367         0.3472 0.3586     0.3091
               (3.44) (3.77) (5.17)      (6.50)     (4.85) (6.24) (6.58) (8.07)           (5.79) (6.43) (6.44)         (6.65) (6.88)
Average       0.1864 0.2209 0.2820      0.3464     0.2703 0.3340 0.3340 0.4102           0.3084 0.3148 0.3180         0.3429 0.3573     0.3097
Minimum       0.1092 0.1362 0.2091      0.2344     0.1767 0.2468 0.2060 0.2828           0.2140 0.1815 0.1772         0.2159 0.2222     0.1092
Maximum       0.2306 0.3498 0.3655      0.4741     0.4090 0.4531 0.4059 0.5385           0.4420 0.3977 0.3990         0.4911 0.5065     0.5385

The table reports Pearson correlations for the monthly returns of the momentum and term structure (TS) portfolios. R and H are ranking and
holding periods for the momentum strategy. TS1 and TS3,i use the front-end of the term structure to measure roll-returns, while TS2 uses the whole
term structure, i is the number of rebalancing instances in a month. Significance t-statistics are in parentheses.



                                                                    37
Table 6. Double-Sort Strategies: Summary Statistics and Risk-Adjusted Performance

                                            TS 1 - Mom 1-1                TS 1 - Mom 3-1                    TS 1 - Mom 12-1                Mom 1-1 - TS 1                 Mom 3-1 - TS 1                      Mom 12-1 - TS 1            Benchmark
                                        L          S       L-S        L          S       L-S            L          S        L-S        L        S         L-S         L        S         L-S         L           S            L-S

Panel A: Summary Statistics
Annualized arithmetic mean             0.1771    -0.0584  0.2355     0.1445 -0.0683        0.2128     0.1214     -0.0667 0.1881      0.1556     -0.0795  0.2351     0.1252 -0.0675 0.1927          0.1194       -0.0954        0.2147       0.0340
                                        (4.28)    (-1.61)  (4.51)     (3.37) (-1.95)        (4.02)     (2.93)     (-1.84)  (3.65)     (3.46)     (-2.39)  (4.42)     (3.03) (-1.91)  (3.67)         (2.97)       (-2.60)        (4.47)       (1.65)
Annualized geometric mean              0.1654    -0.0742  0.2180     0.1264 -0.0818        0.1893     0.1024     -0.0811 0.1632      0.1358     -0.0912  0.2156     0.1065 -0.0813 0.1654          0.1016       -0.1076        0.1999       0.0283
Annualized volatility                  0.2189     0.1920  0.2761     0.2260 0.1850         0.2792     0.2158      0.1886 0.2680      0.2379      0.1759  0.2813     0.2181 0.1867 0.2766           0.2091        0.1909        0.2502       0.1092
Annualized downside volatility (0%)    0.1167     0.1432  0.1509     0.1298 0.1342         0.1614     0.1342      0.1371 0.1637      0.1370      0.1405  0.1558     0.1305 0.1349 0.1691           0.1324        0.1419        0.1486       0.0760
Reward/risk ratio                      0.8092    -0.3043  0.8533     0.6397 -0.3691        0.7624     0.5626     -0.3537 0.7016      0.6543     -0.4520  0.8357     0.5738 -0.3616 0.6965          0.5708       -0.5001        0.8582       0.3112
Sortino ratio (0%)                     1.5180    -0.4081  1.5607     1.1136 -0.5090        1.3187     0.9045     -0.4865 1.1491      1.1361     -0.5656  1.5093     0.9591 -0.5005 1.1391          0.9014       -0.6725        1.4456       0.4473
Skewness                               0.9442     0.3620  0.6577     0.6990 1.0767         0.4274    -0.1251      0.6264 -0.0719     0.5533     -0.2445  0.4833     0.2681 1.0686 -0.1462         -0.2520        0.8240       -0.0598      -0.5087
Kurtosis                              10.6378     6.1464  7.8509    11.8247 10.7970        8.1027     8.2358      6.5063 5.1076      8.4725      3.6442  5.6203     6.9029 10.2905 6.4818          8.5172        7.0350        4.6317       4.6578
99% VaR (Cornish-Fisher)               0.1963     0.1530  0.2257     0.2429 0.1573         0.2544     0.2280      0.1389 0.2230      0.2132      0.1341  0.2036     0.1909 0.1530 0.2601           0.2296        0.1334        0.1994       0.0946
% of positive months                   0.5863     0.4554  0.6012     0.5629 0.4311         0.6198     0.5600      0.4277 0.5785      0.5744      0.4435  0.6042     0.5389 0.4401 0.5838           0.5631        0.4092        0.6185       0.5536
Max runup (consecutive)                                   1.4581                           1.3803                         1.1047                         1.1122                     0.9570                                     0.8522       0.3116
Runup length (months)                                           4                                4                             14                              4                          4                                          8            9
Maximum drawdown                      -0.5190    -0.9363 -0.4470    -0.5293     -0.9228   -0.5948    -0.5056     -0.9250 -0.6381    -0.5483     -0.9528 -0.4889    -0.5736 -0.9294 -0.6618        -0.4868       -0.9592       -0.5262      -0.5215
Drawdown length (months)                                       25                               29                             37                             29                         32                                         19           78
Valley to recovery (months)                                    10                               25                             26                             15                         46                                         35         129
Max 12M rolling return                 1.0089     0.5670 1.7197      1.1410      0.6792    1.3021     1.0236      0.4761 1.4135      0.9990      0.6490 1.4738      0.8690 0.5759 1.2795           0.9141        0.5485        1.4077       0.3507
Min 12M rolling return                -0.4008    -0.4604 -0.3927    -0.3936     -0.5109   -0.5365    -0.4172     -0.6089 -0.4368    -0.4972     -0.4826 -0.4737    -0.4467 -0.5225 -0.5565        -0.5153       -0.6343       -0.3945      -0.3297
Portfolio turnover (p.a.)             10.3774    10.0244 10.2009     9.4291      8.6275    9.0283     9.0252      7.7614 8.3933     10.5075     10.2579 10.3827     9.5150 8.7719 9.1434           8.9005        7.6882        8.2944       6.3438
Net return                                                0.2288                           0.2069                         0.1825                         0.2282                     0.1866                                     0.2093       0.0319

Panel B: Risk-Adjusted Performance
Annualized                     0.1550          -0.0816 0.2366      0.1193     -0.0848 0.2041        0.1018     -0.0867 0.1886      0.1295     -0.0997 0.2292      0.1020     -0.0845 0.1865      0.0946       -0.1218        0.2163
                                  (4.25)          (-2.40)  (4.48)      (3.34)    (-2.51)  (3.96)        (3.09)    (-2.53)  (3.73)      (3.25)    (-3.30)  (4.29)      (2.91)    (-2.50)  (3.60)      (2.98)      (-3.60)        (4.56)
B                              -0.1918           0.0098 -0.2015    -0.1173     -0.1275 0.0103       -0.2864     -0.0304 -0.2560    -0.0616     -0.0861 0.0245     -0.1189     -0.1193 0.0004     -0.0901        0.0789       -0.1690
                                 (-1.01)           (0.06) (-0.68)     (-0.69)    (-0.79)  (0.04)       (-1.79)    (-0.18) (-1.04)     (-0.32)    (-0.59)  (0.10)     (-0.71)    (-0.74)  (0.00)     (-0.58)       (0.48)       (-0.73)
M                               0.0697           0.1785 -0.1089     0.0551      0.2023 -0.1472       0.0871      0.1837 -0.0966     0.0876      0.1507 -0.0631     0.0525      0.1838 -0.1313     0.0742        0.2094       -0.1352
                                  (0.98)           (2.65) (-1.04)      (0.78)     (3.02) (-1.44)        (1.35)     (2.73) (-0.97)      (1.11)     (2.51) (-0.59)      (0.75)     (2.74) (-1.28)      (1.19)       (3.15)       (-1.45)
C                               0.6624           0.3949 0.2675      0.7267      0.2888 0.4379        0.7523      0.3674 0.3849      0.6519      0.4245 0.2274      0.6724      0.3217 0.3507      0.7424        0.4164        0.3260
                                  (8.30)           (7.22)  (2.35)    (12.64)      (5.31)  (5.27)      (14.19)      (6.67)  (4.73)    (10.14)      (8.71)  (2.64)    (11.88)      (5.90)  (4.20)    (14.54)        (7.64)        (4.27)
R2                               0.2870           0.1467 0.0272      0.3227      0.0962 0.0738        0.3867      0.1332 0.0638      0.2331      0.1938 0.0125      0.2961      0.1083 0.0460      0.3944        0.1722        0.0539

Panel A reports summary statistics for the monthly returns of the 6 double-sort strategies and Panel B reports coefficient estimates from (1).  measures abnormal performance, B, M
and C measure the sensitivities of returns to the excess returns on Lehman Brothers Aggregate US total return bond index, the S&P500 composite index and the S&P GSCI,
respectively. The last row reports the adjusted goodness of fit statistic. TS1 uses the front-end of the term structure to measure roll-returns, MomR-H refers to a momentum strategy with
R-month ranking period and H-month holding period, L, S and L-S stand for long, short and long-short, respectively. Benchmark refers to a long-only strategy that equally-weights all
37 commodities. t-ratios are in parentheses and significance at the 5 % level or better is denoted in bold.




                                                                                                                           38
Table 7. Return Correlations of Combined Strategies and Traditional Asset Classes
                         LB          S&P500           GSCI              FX           T-bond        T-bill
TS 1 - Mom 1-1        -0.0613        -0.0650         0.1709          -0.0408          0.0719       0.0695
                       (-1.12)        (-1.19)         (3.17)          (-0.75)          (1.32)       (1.27)
TS 1 - Mom 3-1        -0.0200        -0.0695         0.2759          -0.0698          0.0023       0.0058
                       (-0.37)        (-1.27)         (5.23)          (-1.28)          (0.04)       (0.11)
TS 1 - Mom 12-1       -0.0744        -0.0627         0.2548           0.0071          0.0044       0.0312
                       (-1.34)        (-1.13)         (4.74)           (0.13)          (0.08)       (0.56)
Mom 1-1 - TS 1        -0.0049        -0.0285         0.1423          -0.0720          0.0844       0.0562
                       (-0.09)        (-0.52)         (2.63)          (-1.32)          (1.55)       (1.03)
Mom 3-1 - TS 1        -0.0196        -0.0637         0.2228          -0.1091         -0.0142      -0.0286
                       (-0.36)        (-1.16)         (4.16)          (-2.00)         (-0.26)      (-0.52)
Mom 12-1 - TS 1       -0.0630        -0.0860         0.2305           0.0044          0.0029       0.0294
                       (-1.13)        (-1.55)         (4.26)           (0.08)          (0.05)       (0.53)
Absolute average       0.0405         0.0626         0.2162          0.0505          0.0300       0.0368
The table reports Pearson correlations and significance t-statistics (normally distributed) in parentheses.
TS1 uses the front-end of the term structure to measure roll-returns, MomR-H is a momentum strategy with
R-month ranking and H-month holding periods. LB, S&P500 and S&P GSCI represent, respectively, the
excess returns on the Lehman Brothers Aggregate US total bond index, the S&P500 index and the
Goldman Sachs Commodity Index. FX are the returns of the US$ effective (vis-à-vis main currencies)
exchange rate index. T-bond and T-Bill are the US 10-year Treasury bond yields and the US 3-month
Treasury Bill rate, respectively. Bold denotes significant at the 5 % level or better. The last row reports
the average of the correlations in absolute value.




                                                   39
Table 8. Triple-Sort Strategy Based on Volume, Term Structure and Momentum
                                                 High volume (HV )                     Low volume (LV )                  Tests
                                        Annualized Annualized Reward/risk    Annualized Annualized Reward/risk      Mean       Pearson
                                       arithm. mean   volatility   ratio    arithm. mean    volatility  ratio    difference correlation

Panel A: Triple-sort strategy based on $ Volume
Vol =0.8 / TS 1 =0.33 / Mom 1-1 =0.5  0.1981         0.2806      0.7058       0.1763      0.2798      0.6300      0.5597      0.7295
                                                                                                                              (19.49)
Vol =0.8 / TS 1 =0.5 / Mom 1-1 =0.5      0.1629      0.2241      0.7269       0.1428      0.2056      0.6943      0.6968      0.7496
                                                                                                                              (20.70)
Vol =0.8 / Mom 1-1 =0.5 / TS 1 =0.5      0.1584      0.2220      0.7137       0.1555      0.2072      0.7507      0.1003      0.7492
                                                                                                                              (20.67)
Vol =0.8 / Mom 1-1 =0.33 / TS 1 =0.5     0.2024      0.2978      0.6798       0.2210      0.2681      0.8243      -0.5115     0.7747
                                                                                                                              (23.39)
Vol =0.5 / TS 1 =0.5 / Mom 1-1 =0.5      0.2285      0.2882      0.7928       0.1424      0.2763      0.5153      1.2916      0.2198
                                                                                                                              (4.12)
Vol =0.5 / Mom 1-1 =0.5 / TS 1 =0.5      0.2162      0.2895      0.7468       0.1354      0.2823      0.4798      1.1326      0.1285
Average                                  0.1937                               0.1594                                          (2.37)

Panel B: Triple-sort strategy based on percentage change in volume
Vol =0.8 / TS 1 =0.33 / Mom 1-1 =0.5  0.1667       0.2971      0.5613         0.2215      0.2801      0.7909      -1.4527     0.7624
                                                                                                                              (21.56)
Vol =0.8 / TS 1 =0.5 / Mom 1-1 =0.5      0.1563      0.2334      0.6700       0.1815      0.2269      0.7997      -0.8506     0.7703
                                                                                                                              (22.05)
Vol =0.8 / Mom 1-1 =0.5 / TS 1 =0.5      0.1682      0.2226      0.7557       0.1697      0.2151      0.7890      -0.0534     0.7678
                                                                                                                              (21.87)
Vol =0.8 / Mom 1-1 =0.33 / TS 1 =0.5     0.1912      0.2962      0.6453       0.2031      0.2924      0.6945      -0.3385     0.8003
                                                                                                                              (23.35)
Vol =0.5 / TS 1 =0.5 / Mom 1-1 =0.5      0.2061      0.2920      0.7059       0.1553      0.2661      0.5835      0.7639      0.2071
                                                                                                                              (3.86)
Vol =0.5 / Mom 1-1 =0.5 / TS 1 =0.5      0.1712      0.2980      0.5744       0.1174      0.2566      0.4578      0.8054      0.1981
Average                                  0.1786                               0.1654                                          (3.69)

The table reports summary statistics for the monthly returns of a triple-sort long-short strategy based on volume (Vol),
term structure (TS1) and momentum (Mom1-1). The numbers reported in column 1 indicate the percentages of the available
cross-section that are used to implement the triple-sort strategy. The last two columns report, respectively, a paired two-
sample Student’s t-statistic to determine whether the HV and LV returns are statistically different, and the return
correlation measure with significance t-statistic in parenthesis. Bold denotes significant at the 5 % level or better.




                                                                    40
Table 9. Tests for Superior Performance
Loss                    Best performing                            Most significant       Consistent p-values
function         Strategy     Loss t -statistic         Strategy      Loss t -statistic   SPA test RC test

Panel A: Long-only EOM benchmark, bootstrap dependence q =0.2

linear        TS 1 -Mom 1-1   0.6064
                                  3.7007   TS 1 -Mom 1-1 0.6064 3.7007                      0.0020     0.0037
                                 (0.0002)                       (0.0002)
exp ( =1)  TS 1 -Mom 1-1 0.9836 3.2277    TS 1 -Mom 1-1 0.9836 3.2277                      0.0103     0.0146
                                 (0.0006)                       (0.0006)
exp ( =2)  TS 1 -Mom 1-1 0.9734 2.7382    TS 1 -Mom 1-1 0.9734 2.7382                      0.0400     0.0591
                                 (0.0024)                       (0.0024)
Panel B: Long-only 15M benchmark, bootstrap dependence q =0.2

linear        TS 1 -Mom 1-1   0.6064
                                  3.4726  TS 1 -Mom 1-1 0.6064 3.4726                       0.0044     0.0067
                                 (0.0004)                      (0.0004)
exp ( =1)  TS 1 -Mom 1-1 0.9836 2.9942   TS 1 -Mom 1-1 0.9836 2.9942                       0.0190     0.0286
                                 (0.0011)                      (0.0011)
exp ( =2)  TS 1 -Mom 1-1 0.9734 2.5003   TS 1 -Mom 1-1 0.9734 2.5003                       0.0758     0.0995
                                 (0.0053)                      (0.0053)
Panel C: Long-only EOM benchmark, bootstrap dependence q =0.5

linear        TS 1 -Mom 1-1   0.6084     3.7517     TS 1 -Mom 1-1     0.6084  3.7517        0.0027     0.0028
                                        (0.0000)                             (0.0000)
exp ( =1)    TS 1 -Mom 1-1   0.9836     3.2810     TS 1 -Mom 1-1     0.9836 3.2810         0.0117     0.0142
                                        (0.0004)                             (0.0004)
exp ( =2)    TS 1 -Mom 1-1   0.9734     2.7908     TS 1 -Mom 1-1     0.9734 2.7908         0.0401     0.0547
                                        (0.0019)                             (0.0019)

Panel D: Long-only 15M benchmark, bootstrap dependence q =0.5

linear        TS 1 -Mom 1-1   0.6084     3.5064     TS 1 -Mom 1-1     0.6084  3.5064        0.0063     0.0067
                                        (0.0002)                             (0.0002)
exp ( =1)    TS 1 -Mom 1-1   0.9836     3.0292     TS 1 -Mom 1-1     0.9836 3.0292         0.0225     0.0278
                                        (0.0008)                             (0.0008)
exp ( =2)    TS 1 -Mom 1-1   0.9734     2.5346     TS 1 -Mom 1-1     0.9734 2.5346         0.0797     0.0992
                                        (0.0044)                             (0.0044)
q is the parameter of the geometric distribution that governs the random block-length in the bootstrap
samples. t-statistic refers to the comparison of a particular trading rule’s performance and the passive
benchmark; a significantly positive value indicates that the former outperforms the latter. Best performing is
the trading rule with the smallest (largest) average loss (returns). Most significant is the trading rule with
the largest t-statistic. The p-values reported in parentheses are for pairwise comparisons that ignore the full
‘universe’ of m=55 trading rules so they suffer from data mining whereas the consistent p-values reported in
the final two columns for the SPA and RC tests summarize the evidence against the composite null
hypothesis H0: the benchmark is not inferior to any of the alternative strategies.




                                                   41
Table 10. Performance over an Extended Sample: January 1979 – November 2008
                                           Mom 1-1                             TS 1                         TS 1 - Mom 1-1
                                                                                                                                        Benchmark
                                 L            S         L-S          L          S         L-S          L          S          L-S

Annualized arithmetic mean      0.1155      -0.0676      0.1831     0.0784     -0.0681     0.1465     0.1638     -0.0677      0.2315       0.0242
                                  (2.87)      (-1.90)     (3.75)      (2.23)    (-2.00)     (3.38)      (4.06)    (-1.89)      (4.61)       (1.09)
Annualized volatility           0.2197       0.1948      0.2664     0.1922      0.1859     0.2366     0.2206      0.1962      0.2745       0.1217
Reward/risk ratio               0.5255      -0.3471      0.6872     0.4078     -0.3662     0.6190     0.7425     -0.3452      0.8434       0.1992
Annualized                    0.1026      -0.0804      0.1830     0.0658     -0.0815     0.1472     0.1508     -0.0832      0.2340
                                  (2.96)      (-2.58)     (3.72)      (2.40)    (-2.66)     (3.41)      (4.45)    (-2.53)      (4.67)
B                             -0.1338      -0.1535      0.0197    -0.1668     -0.0347    -0.1322    -0.1916     -0.0042     -0.1873
                                 (-0.79)      (-1.00)     (0.08)     (-1.24)    (-0.23)    (-0.62)     (-1.15)    (-0.03)     (-0.76)
M                              0.0134       0.1304     -0.1170    -0.0036      0.0960    -0.0997     0.0341      0.1688     -0.1347
                                  (0.20)       (2.13)    (-1.21)     (-0.07)     (1.60)    (-1.18)      (0.51)     (2.62)     (-1.37)
C                              0.5921       0.4844      0.1077     0.6325      0.4278     0.2047     0.6326      0.4003      0.2323
                                (11.45)      (10.41)      (1.47)    (15.49)      (9.38)     (3.18)    (12.53)      (8.18)      (3.11)

The table reports summary statistics for the monthly returns of two single-sort and one double-sort strategies over an extended sample
spanning the period January 1979-November 2008.  measures abnormal performance, B, M and C measure the sensitivities of returns to
the excess returns on Lehman Brothers Aggregate US total return bond index, the S&P500 composite index and the S&P GSCI,
respectively. Mom1-1 refers to a momentum strategy with 1-month ranking period and 1-month holding period, TS1 uses the front-end of the
term structure to measure roll-returns, L, S and L-S stand for long, short and long-short, respectively. Benchmark refers to a long-only
strategy that equally-weights all 37 commodities. t-ratios are in parentheses and significance at the 5% level or better is denoted in bold.




                                                                         42
Figure 1. Future Value of $1
                            300



                            250                                                                                                                                                                       249.94
                                                                         TS1 - Mom1-1
                                                                         Mom1-1
                            200                                          TS1




       Future value of $1
                                                                         Benchmark


                            150



                            100



                             50                                                                                                                                                                       51.42

                                                                                                                                                                                                      22.33

                                0                                                                                                                                                                     2.19

                                  79                81         83         85            87        89         91        93        95         97        99        01         03         05         07
                               n-                n-         n-         n-            n-        n-         n-        n-        n-         n-         n-        n-        n-         n-         n-
                            Ja                Ja         Ja         Ja          Ja           Ja         Ja        Ja        Ja        Ja         Ja        Ja        Ja         Ja         Ja




      TS1 is the term structure strategy that measures roll-returns from the front-end of the term structure. Mom1-1
      refers to a momentum strategy with 1-month ranking and holding periods. TS1-Mom1-1 combines the two signals
      in a double-sort strategy. Benchmark refers to a long-only portfolio that equally weights all 37 commodities.


      Figure 2. Returns Distribution

                                                   14

                                                   12


                                                   10

                                                     8

                                    Density
                                                     6

                                                     4

                                                     2

                                                     0
                                                         -.6                   -.4                -.2                 .0                 .2                .4                   .6

                                                                                                  Mom1-1                               TS1
                                                                                                  TS1-Mom1-1                           Long-only



      TS1 is the term structure strategy that measures roll-returns from the front-end of the term structure, Mom1-1
      refers to a momentum strategy with 1-month ranking and holding periods, TS1-Mom1-1 combines the two signals
      in a double-sort strategy. Long-only refers to a long-only portfolio that equally weights all 37 commodities.



                                                                                                                            43
APPENDICES


Table A1. Risk-Adjustment Performance from 6-Factor Model
Panel A: Momentum-Only Strategies
                         R= 1                                         R=3                                     R =6                       R =12
         H =1       H =3        H =6      H =12       H =1       H =3        H =6      H =12        H =1       H =3       H =6       H =1       H =3
       0.1798     0.0983      0.0651     0.0573     0.1483     0.0864      0.0595     0.0497      0.1059     0.0759     0.0873     0.1438     0.0057
          (3.50)     (3.04)      (2.94)     (3.51)     (2.88)     (2.00)      (1.87)     (2.01)      (2.18)     (1.72)     (2.24)     (2.87)     (1.54)
B      -0.0101     0.0089      0.0355     0.0482     0.1524     0.0121      0.0530     0.1609     -0.0555    -0.0081     0.0209     0.0691     0.2414
         (-0.04)     (0.06)      (0.33)     (0.60)     (0.61)     (0.06)      (0.35)     (1.28)     (-0.24)    (-0.04)     (0.11)     (0.28)     (1.07)
M      -0.1151    -0.0462      0.0190    -0.0122    -0.1124     0.0219      0.0274    -0.0324     -0.0396     0.0354    -0.0216    -0.0873    -0.0799
         (-1.02)    (-0.70)      (0.43)    (-0.38)    (-1.09)     (0.25)      (0.43)    (-0.67)     (-0.41)     (0.40)    (-0.28)    (-0.88)    (-0.91)
C       0.0925     0.1855      0.0995     0.1103     0.3215     0.2435      0.1833     0.1985      0.2557     0.2277     0.1990     0.3264     0.3427
          (0.74)     (2.62)      (2.73)     (4.10)     (3.79)     (3.43)      (3.48)     (4.90)      (3.20)     (3.12)     (3.10)     (3.95)     (4.69)
 FX    -0.3396    -0.2127     -0.0598     0.0046    -0.3656    -0.2181     -0.0664     0.0274     -0.1784    -0.0707     0.0463    -0.0905    -0.0311
         (-1.38)    (-1.40)     (-0.58)     (0.06)    (-1.52)    (-1.09)     (-0.45)     (0.24)     (-0.79)    (-0.35)     (0.26)    (-0.39)    (-0.15)
 UI     0.8312     0.2748     -0.1251    -0.0459     0.4108    -0.3109     -0.0487    -0.2022     -0.1074    -0.1457    -0.2045    -0.3735    -0.1988
          (0.91)     (0.44)     (-0.32)    (-0.16)     (0.46)    (-0.41)     (-0.09)    (-0.48)     (-0.13)    (-0.19)    (-0.30)    (-0.43)    (-0.26)
 UIP   -0.3730    -0.0933     -0.1447    -0.1384    -0.1463    -0.0281     -0.2141    -0.2141     -0.1177    -0.1716    -0.2807    -0.2633    -0.3695
         (-1.55)    (-0.71)     (-1.59)    (-2.06)    (-0.69)    (-0.16)     (-1.62)    (-2.11)     (-0.59)    (-0.94)    (-1.75)    (-1.27)    (-2.02)
R2       0.0060     0.0325      0.0191     0.0481     0.0404     0.0276      0.0318     0.0746      0.0198     0.0182     0.0226     0.0410     0.0670

Panel B: TS-Only Strategies
                                        EOM returns                                                                   15M Returns
          TS 1        TS2       TS 3,j=2  TS 3,j=4  TS 3,j=7    TS 3,j=10 Benchmark        TS 1       TS2     TS 3,j=2   TS 3,j=4 TS 3,j=7     TS 3,j=10
       0.1414    0.0661        0.1447 0.1376 0.0995            0.0994 0.0171          0.1495      0.0522    0.1190 0.0807 0.0239             0.0420
         (3.14)     (1.50)       (3.25)    (3.16)   (2.25)        (2.22)    (1.25)        (3.55)     (1.24)     (2.79)    (1.89)   (0.53)        (0.98)
B      -0.1329    0.0809       -0.3149 -0.1447 -0.1288         -0.0772 -0.1884         -0.1868    0.1319     -0.1937 -0.0969 -0.0548          -0.1131
         (-0.61)    (0.38)       (-1.46)  (-0.69)   (-0.60)      (-0.36)   (-2.83)       (-0.91)    (0.65)     (-0.94)   (-0.47)  (-0.25)       (-0.54)
M      -0.0994    -0.0750      -0.1183 -0.1579 -0.1917         -0.1724 0.1199          -0.1265    -0.1408    -0.1551 -0.1581 -0.1246          -0.1303
         (-1.11)    (-0.85)      (-1.33)  (-1.82)   (-2.17)      (-1.93)    (4.38)       (-1.51)    (-1.68)    (-1.82)   (-1.86)  (-1.39)       (-1.52)
C       0.2282    0.3714        0.2459 0.2387 0.2508            0.2891 0.4420          0.1145      0.3485     0.2031 0.2160 0.3029            0.2623
         (3.07)     (5.10)        (3.35)   (3.33)    (3.44)      (3.91)    (19.50)        (1.65)     (5.02)     (2.88)    (3.07)   (4.10)        (3.71)
 FX     0.0346    0.1996        0.0371 0.1171 0.0909            0.1020 -0.1443         0.2800      0.2434    0.1307 0.2155 0.1470             0.2083
         (0.16)     (0.97)       (0.18)    (0.58)   (0.44)       (0.49)    (-2.25)        (1.42)     (1.24)     (0.66)    (1.08)   (0.70)        (1.04)
 UI     0.1564    0.1074        0.3014 0.4091 0.6870            0.6861 0.0424          0.5695      0.6563    0.8440 0.6815 0.5543             0.3537
         (0.20)     (0.14)       (0.39)    (0.54)   (0.89)        (0.88)    (0.18)        (0.77)     (0.89)     (1.13)    (0.91)   (0.71)        (0.47)
 UIP   -0.2916    -0.0916      -0.4757 -0.4832 -0.4145         -0.4067 -0.0669         -0.2811    -0.2191    -0.2904 -0.2225 -0.3520          -0.3059
         (-1.57)    (-0.50)      (-2.60)  (-2.70)   (-2.28)      (-2.21)   (-1.18)       (-1.62)    (-1.27)    (-1.65)   (-1.27)  (-1.91)       (-1.73)
R2       0.0229    0.0604        0.0479 0.0470 0.0470            0.0512 0.5677          0.0160      0.0658    0.0310 0.0290 0.0469             0.0410
Panel C: Combined Momentum and Term Structure Strategies
        TS 1 - Mom 1-1        TS 1 - Mom 3-1     TS 1 - Mom 12-1     Mom 1-1 - TS 1       Mom 3-1 - TS 1      Mom 12-1 - TS 1
         0.2383                0.2057             0.1893             0.2321               0.1886              0.2169
            (4.58)               (3.98)              (3.74)             (4.38)                (3.65)             (4.58)
B        -0.2145               -0.0071             -0.2395             0.0023              -0.0544             -0.1595
           (-0.85)               (-0.03)             (-0.97)            (0.01)               (-0.22)             (-0.69)
M        -0.1248               -0.1603             -0.1074            -0.0884              -0.1569             -0.1475
           (-1.20)               (-1.56)             (-1.08)            (-0.84)              (-1.52)             (-1.58)
C         0.2688                0.4377             0.3947             0.2310               0.3305              0.3316
            (3.13)               (5.15)              (4.74)             (2.64)                (3.89)             (4.24)
 FX      -0.1382               -0.1846              0.1251            -0.2593              -0.4120             0.0870
           (-0.57)               (-0.77)              (0.54)            (-1.05)              (-1.72)              (0.40)
 UI       0.6207                0.6023             0.2067             1.2080               -0.0256             0.0527
            (0.68)               (0.67)              (0.24)             (1.31)               (-0.03)             (0.06)
 UIP     -0.3631               -0.2432             -0.3682            -0.5596              -0.3993             -0.3792
           (-1.69)               (-1.14)             (-1.77)            (-2.56)              (-1.88)             (-1.94)
 R2        0.0287                0.0718             0.0652             0.0300               0.0554              0.0568

The coefficient estimates and significance t-statistics (in parenthesis) are for multifactor model (1) augmented
with three additional risk factors, FX, UI and UIP. FX are the returns of the US$ effective (vis-à-vis main
currencies) exchange rate index, UI and UIP stand for unexpected inflation and unexpected change in industrial
production, respectively.  is annualized. EOM are end-of-month returns and 15M are 15th-of-month returns.



                                                                    44
Table A2. Conditional Risk-Adjusted Performance
                                      t- statistic         p1            p2            p3

Panel A: Momentum-Only Strategies
Mom 1-1           0.1657       3.5333                      0.3140       0.0000       0.0000
Mom 1-3           0.0915       3.1236                      0.0777       0.0000       0.0000
Mom 1-6           0.0619       2.9704                      0.1153       0.0071       0.0118
Mom 1-12          0.0548       3.4013                      0.1100       0.0003       0.0003
Mom 3-1           0.1408       2.9240                      0.0804       0.0000       0.0000
Mom 3-3           0.0795       1.9434                      0.1137       0.0179       0.0088
Mom 3-6           0.0587       1.8776                      0.0259       0.0005       0.0002
Mom 3-12          0.0533       2.1431                      0.1101       0.0343       0.0231
Mom 6-1           0.0888       1.8588                      0.0367       0.0015       0.0007
Mom 6-3           0.0673       1.5476                      0.0483       0.0017       0.0013
Mom 6-6           0.0853       2.1970                      0.0194       0.0218       0.0059
Mom 12-1          0.1288       2.6145                      0.0300       0.0007       0.0002
Mom 12-3          0.0685       1.5219                      0.2648       0.0505       0.0527
Average                  0.0977

Panel B: TS-Only Strategies
TS 1 (EOM)           0.1450              3.1711            0.4250       0.1386       0.1587
TS 2 (EOM)           0.0569              1.2827            0.2741       0.0292       0.0401
TS 3,i=2 (EOM)       0.1346              2.9690            0.1628       0.1133       0.1352
TS 3,i=4 (EOM)       0.1239              2.8115            0.2337       0.0201       0.0308
TS 3,i=7 (EOM)       0.0847              1.9020            0.2271       0.0085       0.0168
TS 3,i=10 (EOM)      0.0841              1.8609            0.2949       0.0136       0.0278
TS 1 (15M)           0.1385              3.2118            0.8468       0.1673       0.2944
TS 2 (15M)           0.0314              0.7458            0.1988       0.0064       0.0072
TS 3,i=2 (15M)       0.1086              2.4999            0.3368       0.1072       0.1683
TS 3,i=4 (15M)       0.0748              1.7397            0.3329       0.0197       0.0361
TS 3,i=7 (15M)       0.0287              0.6442            0.1853       0.0009       0.0015
TS 3,i=10 (15M)      0.0407              0.9501            0.1938       0.0019       0.0035
Average                  0.1301

Panel C: Combined Momentum and Term Structure Strategies
TS 1 - Mom 1-1     0.2348    4.9103       0.6343      0.0000                         0.0000
TS 1 - Mom 3-1     0.2133    4.2339       0.0767      0.0000                         0.0001
TS 1 - Mom 12-1    0.2019    4.0643       0.0156      0.0002                         0.0001
Mom 1-1 - TS 1     0.2319    4.8324       0.4506      0.0000                         0.0000
Mom 3-1 - TS 1     0.1867    3.5762       0.1410      0.0550                         0.0590
Mom 12-1 - TS 1    0.2155    4.5484       0.0464      0.0079                         0.0057
Average                  0.2140
 measures annualized conditional abnormal performance and t-statistic is the
corresponding significance test statistic. Bold denotes significant at the 5% level or better.
p1 is the p-value for the composite hypothesis of constant abnormal performance, p2 is the p-
value for the composite hypothesis of constant measures of risk (the so-called betas), and p3
is the p-value for the composite hypothesis of constant abnormal performance and risk. The
reported average is for the conditional alphas that are significant at the 5% level or better.




                                                      45
Table A3. EOM versus 15M portfolio returns
                                           TS 1        TS 2     TS 3,i=2   TS 3,i=4   TS 3,i=7   TS 3,i=10

Panel A: Correlation between EOM returns and 15M returns
Pearson                   0.704     0.820     0.838                 0.826      0.777      0.825
t -statistic                      18.133    26.148   28.079                26.731     22.558     26.719
p-value                          0.0000    0.0000    0.0000                0.0000     0.0000     0.0000

Panel B: Normality analysis for spread
skewness                             -0.762          -0.369    0.0187      0.8083     0.9917     0.9658
p-value                             0.0000          0.0058     0.8887      0.0000     0.0000     0.0000
kurtosis-3                            5.215           3.284    1.2517      3.0637     7.9509     6.0383
p-value                             0.0000          0.0000     0.0000      0.0000     0.0000     0.0000
Jarque-Bera test                    413.29          212.39     21.954      167.99     932.09     562.69
p-value                             0.0000          0.0000     0.0000      0.0000     0.0000     0.0000

Panel C: Paired difference tests
t -statistic                           -0.0013      0.6572     1.0701      2.2295     2.2713     2.1687
p-value                                 0.9990      0.5115     0.2853      0.0264     0.0238     0.0308

Wilcoxon rank statistic                 0.5177      0.6810     1.3853      1.8135     2.5969     2.0902
p-value                                 0.6050      0.4959     0.1660      0.0698     0.0094     0.0366


Panel A reports the Pearson correlations between the EOM and 15M returns of the Long-Short
portfolios, and significance t-statistic. Panel B reports for the EOM-15M return spread the skewness,
excess kurtosis and Jarque-Bera statistics and significance p-values. Panel C reports the paired
difference t-test and Wilcoxon signed ranked test for the null hypothesis that, respectively, the mean and
median spread is zero. Bold denotes significance at the 5% or 1% level.




                                                       46
