             FX Premia Around the Clock
         Preliminary, please do not cite or circulate without permission




             Ingomar Krohn∗               Philippe Mueller†              Paul Whelan‡



                                             ABSTRACT

          We dissect return dynamics in the foreign exchange market into high-frequency compo-
      nents over the 24-hour day. Using twenty-four years of data on G10 currencies we unveil a
      distinct ‘W’ intraday pattern of returns to the dollar portfolio. We show that positive aver-
      age returns for going long foreign currencies are almost entirely generated during U.S. main
      trading hours, whereas currencies collectively depreciate against the U.S. dollar overnight.
      Moreover, we document that 75% of the HML portfolio returns from a standard carry trade
      strategy and almost 80% of dollar carry returns are generated during the U.S. trading day.
      Finally, we show that our main result may be exploitable by investors that are able to benefit
      from lower than average transaction costs.


Keywords: foreign-exchange, carry trade, high-frequency data, intraday and overnight returns,
funding costs.
First Draft: February 2018.
This Version: December 2018.




    We would like to thank Pasquale Della Corte, Christian Julliard, Albert Menkveld, Tarun Ramadorai,
Elvira Sojli, and seminar and conference participants at the HKUST Finance Symposium, Imperial Hedge
Fund Conference, WBS, the Financial Market Liquidity Conference Budapest, FRIC, the New Economic
School, the Moscow Finance Conference, Barclays, Fulcrum Asset Management, CEPR Gerzensee, ICEF
Moscow, and the 12th INQUIRE UK Business School Seminar London for useful comments. The authors
gratefully acknowledge financial support from the Canadian Derivatives Institute. Paul Whelan gratefully
acknowledges financial support from the Center for Financial Frictions (FRIC), grant no. DNRF102.
Ingomar Krohn gratefully acknowledges financial support from the Economic and Social Research Council,
grant no. 1500668. The usual disclaimer applies.
  ∗
    Copenhagen Business School, Solbjerg Pl. 3, 2000 Frederiksberg, DK, Email: ik.fi@cbs.dk
  †
    Warwick Business School, Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK, Email: Philippe.Mueller@wbs.ac.uk
  ‡
    Copenhagen Business School, Solbjerg Pl. 3, 2000 Frederiksberg, DK, Email: pawh.fi@cbs.dk


                                                    1
       Empirical work on exchange rates and currency markets is typically based on daily (or monthly)
currency returns that are measured at the London fixing time (i.e., 4:00 p.m. U.K. time).1 How-
ever, the foreign exchange market trades continuously on a 24-hour decentralised basis between
participants spread across the globe and in different time zones. For example, of the global esti-
mated $6.6 trillion daily turnover, around $1.2 trillion is traded during U.S. hours, roughly $2.4
trillion during London hours, and the remaining volume of $3.0 trillion is distributed across a large
number of local markets (see BIS (2016)).
       In this paper, we study currency returns at high-frequency intervals around the clock and ask
whether the 24-hour nature of currency trading has a bearing on our understanding of the market.
Indeed, it appears natural to study the exchange rate dynamics over the whole trading day and,
thus, developing this theme, we document the following facts:

1. FX returns vary systematically over the course of a 24-hour period and the turning points
  coincide with market opening hours in Australia/New Zealand, Asia, Europe and the U.S.

2. Between U.S. closing and Asian opening hours and between European opening and U.S. opening
  hours the U.S. dollar appreciates versus all currencies. During the remaining periods, i.e.,
  between Asian opening and European opening hours and during the intraday period in the
  U.S., the U.S. dollar depreciates against almost all currencies (with the sole exception of the
  British pound in the first and the Japanese yen in the second window).

3. Taken together, foreign currencies appreciate vis-á-vis the U.S. dollar on average during U.S.
  trading hours and depreciate overnight, displaying a ‘W’ -shaped return pattern over the whole
  24-hour period.

4. Exploring the implications of these findings we show that from the perspective of a U.S investor:
  (i) carry and (ii) dollar carry factor returns are generated almost entirely during U.S. trading
  hours, while ‘expectation hypothesis’ type models of risk premia hold during the overnight
  period in the U.S.

       To establish these facts we construct a panel of 5-minute spot returns around the clock using
high-frequency data on a set of nine currencies vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar: the Australian dollar
   1
       See, e.g., Thomson Reuters (2017).


                                                   1
(AUD), the Canadian dollar (CAD), the euro (EUR), the British pound (GBP), the Japanese yen
(JPY), the New Zealand dollar (NZD), the Norwegian krone (NOK), the Swedish krona (SEK),
and the Swiss franc (CHF). Our sample period spans January 1994 to December 2017 during
which these pairs cover approximately 67% of the total daily turnover in the foreign exchange
market (see BIS (2016)).
   Equipped with intra-day FX returns we first construct close-to-close returns or spot rate
changes sampled at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time (EST), as opposed to the London fix-
ing time sampling at 4:00 p.m. GMT that is generally used in the literature. We choose 5:00 p.m.
EST as our closing time as this coincides with the end of the main trading hours in New York
which also coincides with the end of trading of currency derivatives on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange. We label ‘intraday’ the period that coincides with U.S. trading hours whereas the
remaining hours that contain three distinct periods are labelled as ‘overnight’.
   The details of our findings are as follows:
   First, G10 currency pairs display a systematic sequence of appreciation and depreciation
marked by the opening and closing times of major trading venues. After trading in New York
closes and the trading day in Sydney starts, all foreign currencies in the sample depreciate vis-à-vis
the U.S. dollar. Between the start of the trading day in Southeast Asia (Singapore/Hong Kong)
and Europe (London/Frankfurt) a distinct reversal in the return patterns occurs. All currencies
show a strong appreciation vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar that lasts until the early morning hours of the
next day. Then, coinciding with the opening of trading venues in Europe, foreign currencies de-
preciate until New York trading begins. This trend is particularly strong for European currencies,
but it is quite pervasive qualitatively across the entire currency cross-section. With the beginning
of trading activity in New York, a last significant return reversal can be observed and (almost) all
foreign currencies exhibit a strong appreciation vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar. The relative increase in
the value of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar lasts until New York trading activity ceases
and, with the start of a new trading day, foreign currencies depreciate again. These systematic
reversal patterns are striking in both economic and statistical terms.
   Second, we revisit the canonical expectations hypothesis thesis of Fama (1984) that has been
overwhelmingly rejected in the data using close-to-close returns. Building on the work by Lyons
and Rose (1995) and Chaboud and Wright (2005), we split daily returns into different intraday


                                                  2
components and show that the hypothesis that the slope coefficient β is equal to one cannot
be rejected for any currency pair in our sample when only the overnight period is considered
(although the intercept α is often significant). Using intraday data, however, the slope coefficient
is significantly different from one for all but two currencies. Further, the intercept estimates appear
to systematically take the opposite sign in the day than during the night. The results indicate
that differences between forward rates and expected spot rates largely emerge during the day.
   Third, we show that sorting currencies into portfolios based on their forward discount as in
Lustig, Roussanov, and Verdelhan (2011) leads to a significant spread between the high and the low
interest rate portfolio during intraday periods only. Overnight, all portfolios depreciate against the
dollar and there is no significant spread. Hence, approximately 75% of carry returns are exclusively
earned during the main U.S. trading hours. In addition, we document the intraday evolution of
carry portfolio returns and show how high- and low- interest rate currencies contribute to the
high-minus-low carry portfolio returns during different hours of the trading day.
   Fourth, the unconditional dollar portfolio, a strategy that goes long a basket of foreign curren-
cies on average has a non-significant return, appreciates significantly during the day and reverses
during the night, reflecting the general pattern of the individual currencies. The dollar carry
strategy, where the average forward discount serves as a signal to either go long or short the dollar
portfolio, does not reverse overnight but actually yields a small (and insignificant) positive return,
leading to a positive return overall. Approximately 20% of the conventional return of a dollar carry
strategy can be attributed to overnight dynamics, while almost 80% of the dollar carry returns are
generated between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. (EST). Further, we find that foreign currency returns
evolve very similar in the overnight period irrelevant of the average forward discount, and that
portfolio returns only diverge from each other in the intraday period.
   Fifth, we document intraday behaviour of the unconditional dollar portfolio which is in stark
contrast to the dollar carry strategy. In fact, we provide evidence for a distinct intraday-overnight
split of the dollar portfolio, which generates significantly negative returns over night and positive
returns during the day. While Fourel, Rime, Sarno, Schmeling, and Verdelhan (2018) show that
the dollar portfolio is a strong predictor of currency returns during the day and across different
sampling frequencies, we highlight its diverging return patterns during the day and overnight, and
document how it differs from the pattern of conditional dollar trading.


                                                  3
   Summarising, we find distinctly different foreign exchange return dynamics depending on
whether we consider intraday or overnight periods within a 24-hour window. Some of the known re-
sults based on daily data are almost entirely due to what happens during the intraday or overnight
periods, respectively. As we show in an extensive set of robustness tests, these price dynamics of
the U.S. dollar vis-á-vis foreign currencies are robust across trading days, different periods of the
year, and largely consistent across the sample period of twenty-four years. Further, the system-
atic up- and downswings of the dollar portfolio are not driven by one particular currency pair,
but hold independent of the sub-set of G10 currencies that we consider. Further, we also find a
‘W’ -shaped return pattern in U.S. dollar denominated futures traded on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange (CME), highlighting that the diverging intraday and overnight pattern is not solely lim-
ited to spot markets, but representative of wider intraday return dynamics across foreign exchange
instruments priced vis-á-vis the U.S. dollar.
   As intraday return dynamics appear to be robust and systematic, we next explore various
risk factors that could be considered as the underlying source of the prevalent return pattern.
Specifically, we assess the evolution of the dollar factor in different periods of the day Verdelhan
(2018), decompose daily volatility into different intraday components, analyse the occurrence of
intraday and daily jumps (Lee and Wang (2017)), and compare liquidity dynamics during the
day and over the night (Mancini, Ranaldo, and Wrampelmeyer (2013), Karnaukh, Ranaldo, and
Söderlind (2015)). For none of these factors dynamics appear to be significantly different between
the intraday and overnight period which would allow us to link the return pattern, say as a mean
of compensation, to a corresponding intraday pattern of one of these risk factors. Further, using
NBER recession periods we show that intraday return divergences are not explained by business
cycle dynamics. Positive intraday and negative overnight returns are resilient characteristics in
recessions and economic upswings. We also control for returns on FOMC announcement days
(Mueller, Tahbaz-Salehi, and Vedolin (2017)) and on a broader set of days related to U.S. macroe-
conomic news announcement days (Andersen, Bollerslev, Diebold, and Vega (2003)) to exclude the
possibility that our inferences are driven by abnormal returns related to news diffusion or unex-
pected news announcements. Yet, the pattern of the dollar portfolio prevails on announcement as
well as on days without macroeconomic announcements in the United States. Overall, we conclude
that the intraday pattern of the dollar portfolio is not explained by any of the aforementioned risk


                                                  4
factors.
   Finally, we assess the profitability of simple intraday trading strategies that require daily rebal-
ancing and exploit systematic overnight and intraday price trends of foreign currencies vis-à-vis
the U.S. dollar. In line with previous studies (e.g., Menkhoff, Sarno, Schmeling, and Schrimpf
(2012), Lustig, Roussanov, and Verdelhan (2011)) we use the bid-ask spread as a proxy of transac-
tion costs and we consider different magnitudes of the spread that have been argued to accurately
proxy trading costs faced by dealers in the FX market (Gilmore and Hayashi (2011), Gargano,
Riddiough, and Sarno (2017)). Even though intraday trading strategies require daily rebalancing
of the intraday and overnight portfolio, we document that the most liquid exchange rates (CHF,
EUR, GBP) generate positive net returns in both intraday periods. An equally-weighted portfolio
of these currency pairs leads to 3.50% and 2.41% average annualized net returns during the day
and overnight, respectively. These profits are obtained by holding long foreign currency positions
during the day and by investing into the dollar during the night. Further, if one adjusts the bid-
ask spread to the least conservative magnitude that is suggested by the literature and allowing
for shorter holding overnight periods that account for the return reversals around opening hours
of major trading venues, we document positive net returns for all individual currency pairs. If
spreads are decreased to 25% of the reported size, average annualized net returns range between
0.21% (CAD) and 6.19% (GBP). Our simple assessment points toward the profitability of intraday
trading strategies in the FX spot market and it indicates that persistent intraday price trends can
be successfully exploited by investors.
   The structure of this paper is organized as follows: In Section I we describe the data, while
Section II presents the empirical design and discusses how we choose the sub-periods over the
24-hour window. Section III describes the results with respect to currency risk premia during the
intraday versus overnight period. Section IV summarizes an extensive set of robustness checks.
Section V discusses intraday market characteristics such as volatility, liquidity, and trading costs
which affect return dynamics differently during the course of the trading day and Section VI
concludes.




                                                  5
Literature Review
Our work is related to a recently growing literature that assesses the diverging intraday and
overnight returns in U.S. equity markets. Cliff, Cooper, and Gulen (2008) document that in-
dividual stocks, stock indices and stock index futures yield higher returns during the overnight
non-trading period compared to the regular U.S. trading-hours. They examine potential causes
for the large overnight return and find that neither volatility nor liquidity premia can explain this
finding. Kelly and Clark (2011) also study overnight returns in the context of ETFs and shows
that risk adjusted returns of stocks held overnight vastly exceeds the returns during regular trading
hours. They argue that undiversified semi-professional/noise traders could possibly explain their
finding if they liquidate their positions before market close. Relatedly, Della Corte, Kosowski,
and Wang (2015) assess the impact of market openings and closures on returns of international
stocks and futures across various asset classes. They show that a overnight-intraday strategy that
forms intraday portfolios based on overnight signals outperforms conventional short-term reversal
strategies.
   More recently, Lou, Polk, and Skouras (2017) document a diverging return pattern between
intraday and overnight returns for equities and they provide evidence for strong reversal patterns
between intraday and overnight returns. Bogousslavsky (2018) reports large variations in intra-
day and overnight stock returns for various portfolio compositions: Portfolios based on size and
illiquidity earn their return just before the market close while others accrue their return gradually
throughout the day. The author argues some of these patterns can be explained by information
asymmetry around market closures. Related to these papers, Hendershott, Livdan, and Rösch
(2018) discuss the implications of the intraday return pattern for the capital asset pricing model
(CAPM) and confirm its validity during overnight hours.
   In contrast to studies on equity markets, comprehensive empirical evidence on intraday return
patterns in the FX market is limited. What is more, to the best of our knowledge no study up
to today has explored the implications of systemic intraday return patterns for widely-applied
FX trading strategies. While it has been proven that strategies such as carry or dollar carry
are profitable at daily or lower frequencies, it is unknown what hour of the day most of the
currency risk premia are generated. Our paper aims to fill these gaps and seeks to improve our
understanding of intraday FX returns. Furthermore, as the determinants of the intraday return


                                                 6
pattern are largely unknown to academics and practitioners, we discuss underlying driving forces
of returns and identify the most profitable trading hours of the day for carry and dollar carry.
   Related to our study is early existing work on FX intraday returns such as Cornett, Schwarz,
and Szakmary (1995) who document similar patterns using hourly data for the period 1977 to
1991. Further, Ranaldo (2009) argues that currencies tend to depreciate during local trading
hours, and appreciate during the main trading hours of foreign markets. Breedon and Ranaldo
(2013) extend the same result for the period 1997 to 2007 and link return patterns to order flow
dynamics. Similarly, Jiang (2017) relates systematic return dynamics to different time zones of
local markets and argues intraday patterns are driven by market segmentation and costs of financial
intermediation. With respect to these papers, our contribution is at least three-fold: First, we
provide a more granular dissection of close-to-close returns into daily sub-periods and unveil a
‘W’ shaped intraday return pattern for most individual currencies and for an unconditional dollar
portfolio; Second, we make the connection that close-to-close returns, exclusively employed by the
extant empirical literature, provide a distorted view of currency risk premia since they are the sum
of potentially drastically different return dynamics. Third, we document that foreign currencies
do not only depreciate during the opening hours of their respective local market, but that G10
currencies almost collectively follow return reversals at similar points in time over the day.
   Further, our work distinguishes itself from aforementioned studies by examining the dynamics
of currency premia from trading strategies over the course of the day. We first build upon Lyons and
Rose (1995) and Chaboud and Wright (2005) and re-visit the Fama (1984) regressions in view of
the documented intraday-overnight spread. We find that the expectation hypothesis largely holds
overnight, and that differences between forward rates and expected future spot rates appears to
largely emerge during the day.
   Next, in contrast to all earlier work on intraday returns, we re-visit conventional trading
strategies such as carry (Lustig and Verdelhan (2007)) and dollar carry (Lustig, Roussanov, and
Verdelhan (2014)). While the original empirical assessments are based on conventional close-to-
close returns and largely conducted at the monthly frequency, we examine the return generating
process of portfolio returns over the course of the trading day. In particular, we discuss differences
between overnight and intraday returns of carry and dollar carry portfolios and document how
these strategies perform at specific hours of the day. As our data includes information until


                                                  7
December 2017, we also re-assess the profitability of these strategies in the post-financial crisis
period and link our findings to institutional characteristics of the foreign exchange market.


                                               I.    Data

The empirical analysis is based on one of the most comprehensive high-frequency foreign exchange
quotes data set analysed to date and is constructed from two high-quality data sources. Our full
sample starts in January 1994 and ends in December 2017, covering 24 years of high-frequency tick-
by-tick data for the G10 currencies, including the Australian dollar (AUD), the Canadian dollar
(CAD), the euro (EUR), the Japanese yen (JPY), the New Zealand dollar (NZD), the Norwegian
krona (NOK), the Swedish krona (SEK), the Swiss franc (CHF), and the British pound (GBP),
vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar. These currencies are consistently among the most liquid currencies over
the sample period and together they account for approximately 67% of the total daily turnover in
the foreign exchange market according the latest triannual BIS survey (see BIS (2016)). Our main
data source for exchange rate data is the Thomson Reuters Tick History (TRTH) database which
provides indicative quotes for all G10 currencies from June 1998 to December 2017. To extend the
length of our sample period, we supplement the TRTH data for the January 1994 to May 1998
period with quotes from Olsen & Associates.2 For both data sets we obtain the best bid and ask
quote recorded to the nearest even second. After applying a number of filters to correct the data
for outliers, the price at each five-minute tick is obtained by linearly interpolating from the average
of the bid and ask quotes for the two closest ticks. If no quote was submitted during a specific
interval, we fill the gap with the most recent available price. The quotes are then used to construct
the mid prices as well as the currencies’ net returns at five minute intervals. In addition, the bid-
ask prices also allow to calculate returns net of transaction costs. Following previous studies (e.g.
Andersen, Bollerslev, Diebold, and Vega (2003)) we exclude quotes that are submitted on days
that are associated with low trading activity. We remove all quotes on weekends between Friday
5:00 p.m. and Sunday 5:05 p.m. (Eastern Standard Time, EST). Similarly, we drop information
around fixed holidays, i.e., Christmas (24 to 26 December), New Year (31 December to 2 January),
  2
    We obtain information on spot quotes from both data sources for a long overlapping period that covers all
months between June 1996 and December 2014 and we confirm that returns are very highly correlated, even at
high intraday frequencies. Consequently, results do not depend on the data source.



                                                     8
and 4 July, and around flexible holidays, such as Good Friday, Easter Monday, Memorial Day,
Labor Day, and Thanksgiving (including the day after). We express all spot rates in U.S. dollar
per foreign currency. Hence, an increase of the (log) exchange rate st can be interpreted as an
appreciation of the U.S. dollar vis-à-vis the foreign currency.
       In addition to the data on quoted spot prices, we also use daily spot and 1-month forward
rates from WM/Reuters via Datastream to calculate the monthly forward discounts at the daily
frequency.3 The WM/Reuters data is based on the London fixing time and, thus, sampled at 4:00
p.m. GMT. As we sample daily spot rates at 5:00 p.m. (EST) using data from TRTH, it arises
a slight disconnect in the sampling time between the spot and the forward discount from WM/
Reuters commonly used in the literature. Yet, for the sample period after 1998 we can also obtain
high-frequency 1-month currency swap points from TRTH to construct 1-month forward rates at
arbitrary times in the day.4 This additional information allows to get forward discounts in line
with the daily spot rates we use in the empirical analysis. However, for our benchmark results
we stick with the WM/Reuters forward discounts but we verify for the common sample period
that the results remain qualitatively and quantitatively the same if we use the forward discounts
sampled at 5:00 p.m. New York time.5
       Following a vast literature (see, e.g., Menkhoff, Sarno, Schmeling, and Schrimpf (2012), Mueller,
Tahbaz-Salehi, and Vedolin (2017)), the monthly foreign currency excess return (rxt+1 ) from a
strategy that buys a currency at the forward rate in period t (ft ) and sells it at the spot rate in
period t + 1 (st+1 ) is defined as rxt+1 = ft − st+1 . To be able to account for return dynamics
in distinct intraday periods, we construct excess returns in terms of the difference of the forward
discount and the future change in the spot rate rxt+1 = ft − st − ∆st+1 . This means we combine
the forward discount from Datastream (ft − st ) with intraday return dynamics constructed using
the high-frequency data (∆st+1 ). We assume that the interest rate differential is earned linearly
over the period that the currency position is held as we do not have high frequency interest rates.6
   3
     As WM/Reuters data is only available from January 1997 onwards, we use Barclays BBI spot and forward
rates for the period from January 1994 to December 1996.
   4
     In order to obtain the outright forward rate, the quoted swap points are simply added to the spot rate quote.
   5
     Unlike it is the case for the spot rates, the swap points barely move during the day. This means that any
significant intraday patterns in the dynamics of the forward rates are due movements in the underlying spot rates
and not the forward discount. As the existing literature almost exclusively uses the WM/Reuters data and results
do not depend on the sampling time we decide to not introduce novel data for the forward rates. We report the
results using the forward rates sampled at 5:00 p.m. New York time in the Online Appendix as a robustness check.
   6
     Furthermore, we explicitly assume that covered interest parity (CIP) holds and that the nominal interest rate


                                                        9
As the excess return is defined for a long position in the foreign currency vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar
we use the negative of exchange rate changes (−∆st+1 ) to keep a consistent interpretation between
currency changes and currency excess returns (note that the −∆st+1 also appears in the expression
for the currency excess return).7


                              II.     Dissecting Currency Returns

In this section we discuss the definition of close-to-close returns and the dissection into different
intraday components. Subsequently, we provide a comparison of these return series, illustrate
their developments over the sample period, and describe discrepancies and commonalities between
returns that are generated during certain times of the day.


A.    Intraday Return Dynamics

Equipped with equally-spaced 5-min spot rates for some of the most important currency pairs in
the FX market, we define daily close-to-close spot returns (∆SdCT C ) as the percent change in the
mid-price between 5:00 p.m. on day d and 5:00 p.m. (EST) on day d − 1

                                                           Sd − Sd−1
                                              ∆SdCT C =              .                                            (1)
                                                              Sd−1

Our choice of closing time differs from the “London fix” time at 4:00 p.m. GMT normally used in
studies using FX data. However, we show as a robustness check that results for daily close-to-close
currency returns are virtually identical if the standard data available from Datastream is used.
     Next, we dissect daily currency returns into an intraday and an overnight component. While
trading in currency markets takes place around the clock on almost every day, we take the per-
spective of a U.S. investor that is based in New York and we define the beginning and ending of
the intraday period as 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. (EST), respectively. In line with previous studies
(e.g., Gargano, Riddiough, and Sarno (2017)) we assume that these hours capture the most active
trading period in the spot market for New York based market participants. Further, these trading
differential between foreign (i∗ ) and domestic country (i) equals the forward discount: i∗t − it = ft − st . As shown
by Akram, Rime, and Sarno (2008), at lower frequencies CIP tends to hold for major currency pairs.
    7
      We use the terms “currency spot changes” and “currency returns” interchangeably and these are not the same
as “currency excess returns” that take the interest rate differential into account.


                                                         10
hours overlap to a large extent with the opening hours of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, on
which various currency derivatives are actively traded. Our definition of the intraday period of
the spot market, therefore, also includes the start and end of trading activity of FX forwards,
futures and options which have an impact on the price discovery process of currencies vis-a-vis
the U.S. dollar in the spot market (Rosenberg and Traub (2009)).8 In robustness tests we employ
alternative intraday and overnight specifications, based on quote currencies’ domestic trading hour
as in Breedon and Ranaldo (2013) and we find that results are qualitatively unchanged.
      While the intraday period captures the main spot trading activity in New York, the overnight
window is defined as the remaining period between 5:00 p.m. on day d and 8:00 a.m. on day d + 1.
This window comprises all opening times and some of the closing times of the major FX trading
venues located outside of the U.S. (see, e.g., BIS (2016)). We define three further subperiods: The
first period starts with the opening of markets in Sydney and ends when trading Singapore and
Hong Kong starts (5:00–9:00 p.m. EST). The second period then includes the early trading hours
in Southeast and East Asia (including Tokyo) and ends before trading in Europe commences (9:00
p.m.– 3:00 a.m. EST). The final subperiod then includes the early European trading hours and
ends before markets in the U.S. open again (1:00–8:00 a.m.). While the majority of our analysis
focuses on the diverging patterns between the intraday and overnight period, we also provide
insights on return movements related to the three overnight subperiods, related to the start of
trading in the respective major trading venue commences.9
      More formally, following Lou, Polk, and Skouras (2017), we define intraday (ID) and overnight
(ON ) components in the following way:


                          Sd5:00p.m. − Sd8:00a.m.                               1 + ∆SdCT C
                ∆SdID =                                               ∆SdON =               −1
                                 Sd8:00a.m.                                      1 + ∆SdID

This ensures that our intraday and overnight return measures add up exactly to the close-to-close
returns. Having the intraday versus overnight split we then aggregate all daily (normal) returns
within every month (d ∈ t) to a monthly frequency as follows:
  8
     An overview of currency futures trading hours can be found at http://www.cmegroup.com/trading-hours.
html#fx.
   9
     According to BIS (2016), most of the daily turnover in the global FX market is generated in the United
Kingdom and the United States, followed by Singapore, Hong Kong, and Japan.



                                                    11
                     Y                                    Y                                      Y
         ∆StCT C =    (1 + ∆SdCT C )           ∆StID =     (1 + ∆SdID )              ∆StON =      (1 + ∆SdON )
                     d∈t                                  d∈t                                    d∈t


For the full sample we thus obtain 288 monthly observations for CTC, ID and ON returns. Lastly,
we log-transform returns (ln ∆St = ∆st ) such that ∆sCT
                                                     t
                                                        C
                                                          = ∆sID
                                                              t  + ∆sON
                                                                     t .
                                                                         10
                                                                            Equipped with
these return series we proceed to examine different dynamics of intraday and overnight currency
returns.


B.      Intraday Versus Overnight Returns

We start our analysis by plotting the annualized average cumulative 5-minute log returns over a 24
hour period currency by currency for the full sample window from 1994 to 2017. Starting at 5:00
p.m. New York time the white area refers to the overnight period (5:00 p.m. – 8:00 a.m.) and the
grey-shaded area (8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.) depicts the main trading hours in New York (intraday
period). As shown, all foreign currencies tend to depreciate after trading in New York ceased, and
cumulative returns reach a local minimum around the opening hours of Singapore and Hong Kong.
Subsequently, foreign currencies start to reverse and appreciate against the U.S. dollar roughly
until trading in Europe commences (around 1:00 a.m. EST), before declining again until markets
in the U.S. open. During the intraday period all currencies (except the JPY) appreciate against
the U.S. dollar on average. In particular, the most liquid pairs—the EUR, the GBP, and the
CHF—strongly increase in value against the U.S. dollar between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Most
of the other pairs exhibit a temporary drop between 11:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m., which coincides
with the London fixing time. After U.S. markets close all foreign currencies depreciate again with
the AUD, the NZD and the JPY experiencing the largest drops.

                                        [INSERT FIGURE 13 HERE]

       In Figure 2 we show the average cumulative returns over a 24 hour period of an unconditional
dollar portfolio that goes long all foreign currencies in equal weights. In addition, we also plot
the hourly average log returns over the sample period using grey-shaded boxes for the intraday
  10
    Alternatively, returns can directly be expressed in logs and aggregation then happens on the daily level. Again,
the approach ensures that intraday and overnight returns add up to daily CTC (log) returns.


                                                        12
and blue-shaded boxes for the overnight period. Aggregating across currencies, the distinct depre-
ciation of foreign currencies after local markets open combined with the distinct depreciation of
the U.S. dollar during the intraday period when U.S. markets are open leads to a very clear ‘W’ -
shaped intraday pattern with the basket of foreign currencies depreciating after 5:00 p.m. EST
before reversing with a local peak in the middle of the night. Thereafter, the foreign currencies
drop again in value on average until the U.S. markets open. Overall, there is a significant appreci-
ation of the U.S. dollar during the overnight period of around 4% per year followed by a reversal
during the day of the same magnitude. The dollar portfolio that does not include the Japanese
yen exhibits larger swings in the second half of the day, as the yen moves largely counter-cyclically
to the other G10 currencies during the day.

                                   [INSERT FIGURE 2 HERE]

Table I summarizes Figures 13 and 2 more formally as it contains the average FX log returns
(i.e., exchange rate changes) for the various subperiods we consider. The first column (−∆sSY D )
refers to returns during the early Australian trading hours (5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.), followed
by Southeast Asian trading (9:00 p.m. to 3:00 a.m., denoted by −∆sSEA ), and the first hours
of European trading (3:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m., denoted −∆sEU ). Taking together, these three
subperiods constitute the overnight period, denoted by −∆sON (5:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.) and given
that we show average log returns, columns one through three add up to column four. Intraday
returns (denoted −∆sID , from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.) refer to the main trading hours in the U.S.,
while average close-to-close returns are summarized in the last columns, and calculated using by
daily exchange rate changes at 5:00 p.m. (and, consequently, CTC returns are the sum of either
columns one, two, three and five or just four and five).

                                    [INSERT TABLE I HERE]

As is evident already from Figure 13, all foreign currencies depreciate against the U.S. dollar
after trading in New York ceases. The Australian and New Zealand dollar (-6.48% and -8.62%,
respectively) show the most negative average returns, while the Scandinavian currencies depreciate
the least compared to other currency pairs. It is worth highlighting that irrespective of the
magnitude of the returns, average annualized returns of all G10 currencies are different from zero
at the 5% or 1% level of significance. The next two columns also display a clear return pattern

                                                 13
in the cross-section with most currencies appreciating significantly during the second subinterval
before dropping significantly before U.S. markets open. Overall, the fact that individual currencies
depreciate during the first few hours after local markets open seems to be very robust for the G-
10 currencies in our sample. After trading in Southeast Asia commences, all foreign currencies
(except the GBP) appreciate significantly against the U.S. dollar (−∆sSEA ). During these times
of the day, average returns range between -0.07% (GBP) and 6.34% (NZD). The next reversal
occurs in parallel to the start of trading in Europe and most foreign currencies start to depreciate
vis-‘a-vis the U.S. dollar. While this is also true for the Australian and New Zealand dollar,
they do not depreciate as much as during the first few hours after markets in Australia open and
they depreciate not nearly as much as the European currencies during the same period. Taken
together, the entire average overnight returns (−∆sON ) are negative for all currencies except the
JPY. The returns are particularly negative for the most liquid European currencies such as the
CHF (-6.83%), the EUR (-7.52%), the GBP (-8.69%), followed by the Scandinavian currencies,
the SEK (-5.78%) and the NOK (-3.98%). In turn, all currencies (again with the exception of
the JPY) appreciate against the U.S. dollar during the main trading hours in New York, ranging
between 8.61% for the CHF and 1.17% for the CAD. In summary, all returns are positive during
the intraday period and negative over night with the exception of the Japanese yen, that shows
an opposite pattern, appreciating during the night and depreciating over night by 1.6% in each
direction. Finally, the CTC column indicates that most of the currencies do not appreciate or
depreciate much against the U.S. dollar on average and, in particular, the average return on the
dollar portfolio is very close to zero.

                                    [INSERT FIGURE 3 HERE]

   Figure 3 illustrates the economic magnitude of the differences between intraday and overnight
returns if transaction costs are ignored. The graph shows the (hypothetical total return indices
for the individual currencies starting in January 1994 with a value of one and ending in December
2017 for a position that is held for the whole period (CTC, blue) or only during overnight or
intraday trading hours (ON, yellow or ID, red, respectively). Not very surprisingly, the diverging
pattern over the day between overnight and intraday returns translates into diverging trends in the
long-run. For example, if an investor could have invested one dollar in British pounds during the

                                                14
intraday period at the end of January 1994, she would have obtained a return to this investment
equal to 6.70 USD in December 2017. In contrast, the same trading approach with an overnight
position would have led to a portfolio value of approximately 0.11 USD at the end of the sample
period. Holding the position for the full 24 years would have resulted in a value of roughly
1.18 USD. The biggest spread between overnight and intraday returns is generated for the Swiss
franc where the values of the respective positions in December 2017 are 6.79 USD and 0.17 USD,
respectively.


C.      Futures Returns

The CME has offered currency futures since the breakdown of the post WWII Bretton Woods
agreement in 1972 that imposed fixed exchange rates between the world’s currencies. The develop-
ment of currency futures was initiated by Chicago Mercantile Exchange Chairman Leo Melamed
working in connection with the Nobel Prize winning economist Milton Friedman.11 . In September
1993 CME introduced the GLOBEX electronic trading platform which facilitated global trade for
(almost) 24-hours a day 5-days a week so that currency futures trade concurrent to the OTC spot
market. With respect to OTC indicative spot quotes, futures prices have two attractive proper-
ties: (i) quotes are real-time executable; and (ii) futures prices incorporate the cost of carry which
in the currency is an implied interest rate differential. Thus, studying intraday futures returns
answers two question: (i) are the findings above an artefact of our dataset; and (ii) are the FX
return patterns we observe offset by high frequency fluctuation in the cost of carry (interest rate
differential).
       The blue line of figure 2 repeats the analysis above by cumulating 5-minute returns on the
most liquid futures contracts for each pair, which is almost always the front month contract
except in expiration months around settlement Wednesdays. The ‘W’ shaped return pattern in
the unconditional dollar portfolio is clearly visible. We note that this pattern is computed for a
different sample period that the black line computed from TRTH mid-quotes (2005-20017 versus
1994-2017), and accounting for variation in interest rate differentials does not materially affect our
main result.
  11
       www.cmegroup.com/education/files/understanding-fx-futures.pdf




                                                 15
D.    Robustness

To confirm the robustness of our findings, we conduct an extensive set of tests. Here, we provide
a brief summary of the findings and we defer the details of the robustness checks to the appendix.
     First, we change the cross-section of currencies by excluding one currency at a time from the
dollar portfolio and confirm that our main results are not driven by a specific currency. For every
combination of currencies used to form the dollar portfolio, we find that the basket of currencies
appreciates during the day and depreciates overnight. Second, we re-calculate carry and dollar
carry returns while excluding the Japanese yen from the cross-section as this is the only currency
in the sample that seems to behave considerably different from the other currencies. As expected,
returns to the strategies are lower due to the importance of the yen as a funding currency, but the
general intraday pattern remains unchanged. Third, we check if the systemic intraday pattern is
also prevalent for currencies pegged against the U.S. dollar. To this end, we use 5-minute intraday
data of the Hong Kong dollar (HKD) vis-á-vis the U.S. dollar to construct an unconditional HKD
portfolio against the set of G10 currencies. We find that the exact same intraday return pattern is
resembled by the HKD portfolio, and it closely tracks the cycle of appreciations and depreciation
of the U.S. dollar portfolio. Finally, we analyse portfolio dynamics for different time periods over
the full sample window since 1994. We find that the return patterns are persistent across trading
days of the week, months of the year, and, broadly, across different years.


                       III.    Dissecting Currency Risk Premia

Having established that currency returns exhibit a distinct pattern over the a 24-hour period, we
next investigate the implications of these findings for well-established facts in the FX literature that
are generally based on an analysis of close-to-close returns. We begin our analysis by re-visiting
the expectation hypothesis regressions of Fama (1984) using our monthly series based on close-
to-close, intraday and overnight returns, respectively. Similarly, we also examine to what extent
returns to carry trade (Lustig, Roussanov, and Verdelhan (2011)) or dollar carry trade strategies
(Lustig, Roussanov, and Verdelhan (2014)) are driven by intraday and overnight exchange rate
dynamics.



                                                  16
A.     Forward Premium Regressions

We start by running the same regressions as in Fama (1984) to test the expectations hypothesis
and re-examine the forward premium puzzle. To this end, we estimate the following regression:


                                         ∆st+1 = α + β(ft − st ) + t+1                           (2)


where ∆st+1 = st+1 − st refers to the monthly log exchange rate change, ft denotes the 1-month
log forward rate and st is the log spot rate in period t. Unlike in the original specification we
estimate three separate versions of equation (2) by using our monthly close-to-close, intraday, or
overnight return time series as the dependent variable on the left-hand side, respectively. The
forward discount on the right-hand side of the regression is constructed using monthly forward
and spot rates obtained from WM/Reuters via Datastream. As widely discussed in the literature,
under the expectations hypothesis the intercept is expected to be zero (H0 : α = 0) and the slope
coefficient to be equal to one (H1 : β = 1).12 The hypothesis implies that the forward rate is
an unbiased estimate of the future spot exchange rate. As rational agents drive the value of the
forward rate to the price of the expected future exchange rate, speculation in the forward market is
not profitable. In contrast, if the forward rate is higher (lower) than the expected spot rate, market
participants earn a premium from buying (selling) a currency in the forward market. Deviations
of the slope coefficient from unity are also consistent with the existence of a time-varying risk
premium (Fama (1984)). Table II summarizes the regression results.

                                          [INSERT TABLE II HERE]

Using close-to-close returns we largely confirm the existing evidence in Panel A of Table II: The
estimate of the intercept is close to zero and not significant. At the same time, the point estimate
for the slope coefficient is negative apart from the NZD and significantly different from one for a
third of the currencies (AUD, EUR, and SEK). Once we split up the close-to-close return series into
an intraday and an overnight component, the results become much more unambiguous. For the
intraday regressions (Panel B in Table II), the point estimate for the intercept term is now always
negative and significantly different from zero for six out of nine currencies. At the same time, the
 12
      For an extensive survey, see for example Engel (1996).


                                                         17
slope coefficient is negative again for all currencies except the NZD, ranging between −2.52 (EUR)
and 1.09 (NZD). Moreover, the estimate is significantly different for seven out of nine currencies;
we are not able to reject the null hypothesis H0 : β = 1 only for the Norwegian krone (NOK) and
the New Zealand dollar (NZD). The results are consistent with significant non-zero risk premia
during the intraday period. Interestingly, we find that the regression results are largely reversed
during the overnight period (Panel C in Table II). First, all coefficient estimates for the intercept
(with the exception of the JPY) are positive ranging between −0.02 (JPY) and 0.68 (GBP). In
addition, the intercept term is significantly different from zero for all European currencies (CHF,
EUR, GBP, NOK, SEK). Second, while almost all slope coefficients are negative during the day,
there is no clear pattern for the sign of the coefficient during the night. The estimates range from
−0.67 (NZD) to 1.13 (CAD), and none of them is significant. Moreover, we cannot reject the null
hypothesis H0 : β = 1 for any of the nine currencies we consider.
     In summary, our findings suggest that deviations from the expectation hypothesis are largely
driven by return dynamics observed during U.S. trading hours. As we cannot reject the null
hypothesis that the slope coefficient is equal to one during the overnight period the results point
towards the existence of a risk premium that is only statistically different from zero during certain
hours of the trading day. The results are also consistent with the view that rational agents’
expectations about the future path of the spot exchange rate are in line with the forward rate
during overnight hours, but then deviate when trading in New York commences. The differences
in expected and realized future spot rates generate room for a risk premium which seems to be
earned mainly during the day (in the U.S.).


B.    Carry Trade Revisited

As the previous results suggest that risk premia occur largely during the day, we next examine
what diverging FX return dynamics imply for other well-known FX strategies. To this end,
we follow Lustig and Verdelhan (2007) and Lustig, Roussanov, and Verdelhan (2011) and sort
currencies’ excess returns into portfolios based on their forward discount ft − st . At the beginning
of each month, we allocate currencies into three portfolios, whereby portfolio 3 (P3) contains
the three currencies with the largest forward discount or, equivalently, the highest interest rates,
while the three currencies with the lowest forward discount are assigned to portfolio 1 (P1).

                                                 18
Monthly portfolio returns are calculated as the equally-weighted average of currency excess returns
contained in the portfolio. Following Lustig, Roussanov, and Verdelhan (2011) we also construct
a high-minus-low portfolio from the difference between high (P3) and low interest rate portfolios
(P1). Finally, we also report the returns from the unconditional dollar portfolio (dol) that captures
returns earned from going long all nine foreign currencies. Portfolios are rebalanced every month
based on the forward discount at the end of the month and we form three sets of portfolios using
the close-to-close, intraday and overnight return series, respectively. Note that for all three sets the
portfolio composition is the same as we use on sorting criterion, the forward discount at the time
of portfolio formation. Table III summarizes annualized average excess returns and associated
t-statistics for the three sets of carry trade portfolios.

                                       [INSERT TABLE III HERE]

As before, we start by verifying the well-known finding that portfolio excess returns are mono-
tonically increasing in the interest rate differential from −1.44% for P1 with low interest rate
currencies to 2.89% for the high interest rate currency portfolio (P3) (see top of Panel A in Ta-
ble III). The high-minus-low (HML) portfolio generates an excess return of 4.33% per year and
is highly statistically significant.13 The excess return to the unconditional dollar portfolio is a
measly 0.67% per year and not statistically significant. Decomposing the carry trade returns into
an intraday and overnight component again reveals some striking results (see bottom of Panel A
in Table III). First, for all three portfolios we find that there is a significant intraday vs. overnight
reversal in average excess returns, mirroring the results from Section B for individual currencies
and the overall portfolio. For the high interest rate currency portfolios, the returns range between
6% for the intraday and −3.05% for the overnight period, whereas the spread is slightly smaller for
the low interest rate currency portfolios with 2.74% and −4.17, respectively. Second, for both the
intraday and the overnight period, the excess returns to the high interest rate currency portfolio
are higher than excess returns to the low interest rate currency portfolio, leading to positive ex-
cess returns for the HML portfolio for both periods. However, the returns are only monotonically
increasing during the intraday period and the difference is only statistically significant during the
day. Third, this implies that the return to the carry portfolio is predominantly earned during the
  13
    As a comparison, in Lustig, Roussanov, and Verdelhan (2011) the average annualized return for the high-minus-
low portfolio for developed countries is 5.88% per annum during the period from November 1983 to December 2009.


                                                       19
U.S. trading hours. For our sample, 75% of the total carry return or 3.25% per year are earned
during the intraday period. The remaining 25% or 1.12% per year are earned during the overnight
period although the return by itself is not statistically significant.
       It is worth noting that the results based on forward discount sorts are in line with the time
series regressions presented earlier. Overall, the carry trade strategy is more profitable during
the intraday period, when expectations of the future spot rate and forward rate diverge from
each other. During the overnight period when the expectations hypothesis cannot be rejected
statistically, the carry trade strategy also appears less profitable.
       We further examine the evolution of the spot return component of carry trade portfolios over
the course of the full 24-hour period (note that we assume that the interest rate component is
earned linearly over the trading day so any high-frequency variation must come from spot exchange
rate changes). Thus, we calculate average portfolio returns (i.e., average log exchange rate changes,
not average excess returns!) for every five-minute interval and for all the portfolios. The resulting
cumulative returns over the day are shown in in Figure 4 for the high-minus-low portfolio (HML,
black line), as well as the high and low interest rate currency portfolios, respectively (P3, blue line
and P1, green line).

                                        [INSERT FIGURE 4 HERE]

       First, it is important to note the that the graphs in Figure 4 only reflect spot rate changes
and not interest rate differentials. As is evident from the figure, the average return for the HML
portfolio is slightly negative over the course of the 24-hour day. This means that on average over
our sample period, high interest rate currencies slightly depreciate versus the low interest rate
currencies in line with the predictions of uncovered interest rate parity. However, the depreciation
is not strong enough to offset the positive interest rate differential that is earned by going long
high interest rate currencies while shorting low interest rate currencies. Thus, overall, the returns
to the carry trade over our sample period are mainly due to the interest rate differential that
is not fully offset with the corresponding depreciation of high interest rate currencies.14 Second,
the graphs illustrate roughly how all portfolios appreciate during the day but lose value during
the overnight period. However, there are distinct differences in the dynamics of the high and low
  14
    For earlier sample periods, the carry trade was profitable on both legs. Instead of depreciating, high interest
rate currencies even appreciated against funding currencies.


                                                        20
interest rate currency portfolios, respectively, that ultimately determine the pattern of the HML
portfolio over the day. Initially, portfolio P3 drops quicker and more severely than P1, leading to
a drop in the HML portfolio. The reversal after 9:00 p.m. New York time is roughly the same for
both portfolios, leading to a roughly flat evolution of the HML portfolio until about 5:00 a.m. New
York time. At this point the currencies in portfolio P1 depreciate much more strongly compared
to currencies in portfolio P3, leading to a steep increase in the HML portfolio until markets in NY
open. During the day, the HML portfolio fluctuates around but overall, there is not a significant
change in value during U.S. trading hours.
   In Panels B and C in Table III we consider trading strategies that exploit the reversal in returns
when moving from the intraday to the overnight period. The portfolios in Panel B all go long the
foreign currencies during the day and short during the overnight period. The resulting returns
are very high and statistically significant for all three portfolios, irrespective of the interest rate
differential. In fact, once the intraday-overnight reversal is exploited, the difference between high
and low interest rate currency portfolios is no longer statistically significant. Quite naturally, the
excess return to a signed dollar portfolio is now also large and statistically significant, given the
strong reversal pattern that is common to all currencies with the exception of the Japanese yen.
The most profitable of the hypothetical trading strategies (given that we abstract from transaction
costs at this point) is a strategy that goes long the high interest rate currencies during the day
and short the low interest rate currencies during the night (Panel C in Table III). The average
annualized return for such an approach is 10.16% (t-stat: 6.04). The return from the alternative
reversal strategy (P 1Intra −P 3Over ) is comparably smaller, but still of a larger magnitude compared
to returns from a conventional HML carry trade strategy (5.80% versus 4.33% per annum).
   Overall, it appears that the results from the forward premium regressions are mirrored in
a cross-sectional currency portfolio exercise. We find carry trade returns are almost entirely
generated during the day, while overnight speculation in the forward market does not appear to
be profitable. Moreover, during our sample period, the main source of profitability of the carry
trade is the interest rate differential whereas the exchange rate component of the HML portfolio
exhibits slightly negative returns on overage. Over that day, the HML portfolio is rather volatile
with a distinct period between around 6:30 a.m. and 8:30 a.m. during which it strongly appreciates
driven by a sharp drop in low interest rate currencies in the hours before U.S. markets open.


                                                  21
C.    Dollar Carry Decomposition

The unconditional dollar portfolio in Table III already points towards potential profits that can
be earned from buying and holding U.S. dollar during certain times of the day, unconditional of
the movements of the forward discount. As a next step, we further examine potential trading
profits that can be exploited by conditioning the direction of the trade on the average implied
interest rate, or equivalently, average forward discount (AFD). Following Lustig, Roussanov, and
Verdelhan (2014), we construct dollar carry trade portfolios, which are based on the sign of the
AFD defined as

                                                     N
                                       ¯          1 X i
                                       ft − s̄t =      f − sit                                    (3)
                                                  N i=1 t

where f¯t − s̄t is the average monthly forward discount, and fti and sit are the one-month forward
rate and spot rate for country i in month t, respectively. We use the AFD as an end-of-month
signal to allocate the nine currency excess returns into different portfolios. We follow a trading
strategy where we invest in foreign currencies if the AFD takes positive values, and we sell the
quote currencies otherwise. Again, we analyse the dynamics for monthly close-to-close, intraday,
and overnight returns. The results are shown in Table IV. The column ”ADF ≤ 0” refers to months
in which we short the foreign currencies following a negative signal, but do not trade otherwise.
The column “ADF > 0” applies the alternate strategy, whereby we invest in foreign currencies
following a positive ADF, but do not trade in the remaining months. We obtain a signal to invest
in foreign currencies in 160 months, and to short foreign currencies in the remaining 128 months.
The column “dollar-carry” refers to returns from a dynamic trading strategy during which we
buy and sell foreign currencies in every month, depending on the signal that we obtain from the
ADF. As a comparison, we report the return of “ADF ≤ 0 (excl. 0)” and “ADF > 0 (excl. 0)’ if
we exclude the months, in which no trade is conducted, and returns of the unconditional dollar
portfolio.

                                    [INSERT TABLE IV HERE]

     In contrast to the unconditional dollar portfolio constructed in the previous section, the dollar
carry portfolio based on close-to-close returns generates a significant and positive return of 3.65%

                                                  22
(t-stat: 2.27).15 Further, we note that dollar carry returns are largely generated during New
York trading hours. Table IV shows that intraday dollar carry trade return is 2.86% (t-stat:
2.42). This is equivalent to almost 80% of the dollar carry trade strategy based on close-to-close
returns. A large fraction of these profits is attributed to long positions of foreign currencies during
U.S. trading dollar (3.79%), as the dollar tends to depreciate during these times. Holding short
positions of foreign currencies during the day only generates 0.93%. We find opposite dynamics for
the overnight period during which returns from shorting and buying foreign currencies are both
negative. Yet, the overnight dollar carry strategy generates positive, even though not significant,
returns of 0.85%. It is worth noting that these low but positive returns are driven from shorting
the U.S. dollar when the AFD ≤ (-2.43%). Hence, while the dollar-carry strategy is positive during
the day and overnight, the unconditional dollar portfolio is always negative over night.
       In Panel B and C, we examine overnight minus intraday returns, as well as different reversal
strategies that exploit the diverging return trends between these two periods. In Panel B, almost
all strategies generate positive returns that are statistically different from zero at the 5% level or
higher. Returns from this simple trading approach are in the range of 2.06% (Dollar Carry) and
9.72% (AFD > 0). Furthermore, we find that the AFD can be used as a signal to build reversal
trading strategies (Panel C). A trading approach that shortens foreign currencies over night and
buys them during the day (AF DIntra > 0 − AF DOver ≤ 0) generates a return of 6.22% with a
t-statistic of 5.83. These results suggest that returns from a conventional dollar carry trading
strategy can be enhanced by exploiting intraday return movements.
       The dynamics of the intraday spot component of the dollar carry portfolios are shown in
Figure 5. The figure shows the cumulative spot returns over the course of the trading day for the
dollar carry portfolio (black line), for portfolio returns in months where investors go long foreign
currencies (blue line, AFD > 0), and portfolio returns where investors short foreign currencies
(green line, AFD ≤ 0).

                                      [INSERT FIGURE 5 HERE]

       As displayed in Figure 5, dollar carry returns decline between the end of trading in New York
and the start of the trading day in Southeast Asia. Subsequently, foreign currencies appreciate
  15
     As a comparison, Lustig, Roussanov, and Verdelhan (2014) report an average annualized raw return of 5.60%
for the dollar carry strategy for developed countries for the period November 1983 to June 2010


                                                     23
between 9:00 p.m. and 3:00 a.m. which results into positive cumulative dollar carry returns.
This positive development even continues in the following few hours but it is then largely driven
by the steady depreciation of foreign currencies in months when the average forward discount is
negative. At the beginning of the intraday period, we note that the dollar carry return is already
positive, and then continues to increase until 5:00 p.m. in the afternoon. In contrast to HML carry
returns, the dollar carry portfolio does not exhibit a drop in the run-up to the London 4:00 p.m.
fix, but instead indicates a strong appreciation of foreign currencies around the end of European
trading hours. A further difference compared to Figure 4 is that differences between the intraday
and overnight period are less distinct. While the majority of the dollar strategy’s return is also
generated during trading hours in New York, returns are negative only for a short period of time
during the first few hours of the overnight period and lower in magnitude. Lastly, it is worth
noting that portfolio returns of AFD > 0 and AFD ≤ 0 share the same dynamics for most part of
the overnight period, and that these portfolio returns only start to diverge from each other once
trading in Europe and New York commences. It is this diverging return spread which makes the
dollar carry strategy profitable.


                            IV.     Risk Based Explanations

As the previous section indicates that our findings are robust to different return specifications and
alternative definition of intraday periods, we next explore possible explanations for the diverging
pattern between intraday and overnight returns. In particular, we compare the dollar exposure
across currencies during the day and overnight (Verdelhan (2018)) and we analyse the role of
intraday volatility, currency jumps, and liquidity dynamics. Also, we contrast returns in crises
periods and on announcements days - FOMC and general macroeconomic announcements - with
dynamics of the average day, to investigate if the found intraday patttern in recessions and on
announcements days are potentially driving our findings.




                                                 24
A.     Dollar Risk Factors

In line with Verdelhan (2018), we assess the exposure of each bilateral exchange rate versus the
U.S. dollar portfolio in a simple regression framework of the form


                                            ∆sit = α + β i Dolt + ε


where ∆sit refers to the change in the spot rate in period t and Dolt = N1         ∆sjt , where j 6= i,
                                                                               P

refers to the unconditional dollar portfolio that excludes the currency pair on the left-hand side of
the regression. We estimate the regression for close-to-close (Verdelhan (2018)), intraday (Fourel,
Rime, Sarno, Schmeling, and Verdelhan (2018)), and overnight monthly return series in order to
obtain a complete decomposition of currencies’ time-varying exposure to the dollar factor (β i ) over
the day.16 . Comparing the dollar exposure between the intraday and overnight period, we note
the following observations. First, the coefficient associated with the dollar portfolio is significant
and positive for all currencies in the intraday and overnight period. Intraday it ranges between
0.30 (JPY), and 1.44 (SEK), and 0.31 (JPY) and 1.34 (NZD) overnight. Second, while differences
are small, intraday coefficients are almost always larger than overnight. Notable exceptions are
the Australian dollar (AUD) and New Zealand dollar (NZD), where the dollar factor is larger in
magnitude during the night. Third, the explanatory power of the dollar factor is slightly larger
for all currencies during the intraday period. Intraday (overnight) the lowest adjusted R̄2 is 0.08
(0.04) and it increases to up 0.74 (0.62) for the euro. Overall, there are no systematic differences
between overnight and intraday dollar factors; thus we conclude it is unlikely that the exposure
to the U.S. dollar is the explanation for the findings we document above.


B.     Volatility

A possible explanation for the diverging return patterns during the intraday and overnight periods
could be that investors demand a higher compensation for buying or selling a foreign currency
if the volatility in one period is higher relative to the remaining time of the day. To control for
this explanation, we conduct a simple variance decomposition of close-to-close returns in Table
V. For all currency pairs and different specifications of the dollar portfolio, the table shows the
 16
      The complete regression results are shown in the Online Appendix.


                                                       25
variance, which can be attributed to the intraday and overnight period, and the associated scaled
covariance term. Numbers in squared brackets denote the fraction that each intraday component
contributes to the overall total daily variance.

                                    [INSERT TABLE V HERE]

For most currency pairs, the intraday and overnight variances contribute roughly the same share
to the total daily return variance. Exceptions to this observation are Asian-Pacific currencies
(AUD, JPY, NZD), for which the overnight variance is slightly larger to the intraday values. As
the opposite is true for most European currencies and the Canadian dollar, the higher level of
volatility is likely to be related to the increasing trading activity of these currencies during their
local trading hours. The only exception to this pattern is the British pound where the overnight
variance is slightly higher compared to the intraday period. For the dollar portfolio, we note
that differences between overnight and intraday volatility are almost the same. Due to the small
differences between overnight and intraday volatility, as share of close-to-close volatility (0.45),
we suppose it is unlikely that return volatility is the main driver of the diverging intraday and
overnight pattern.
   To shed further light onto the intraday volatility pattern, we exhibit the average absolute
percentage change at each five minute time-stamp over the trading day in Figure 6.

                                   [INSERT FIGURE 6 HERE]

   For all currency pairs we observe a spike of the intraday volatility at the end of the trading hours
in New York, before volatility decreases significantly in the subsequent hours. Most currencies, in
particular the Japanese yen, show an increase in the volatility pattern before trading commences
in Singapore and Hong Kong, and it decreases subsequently until approximately 1:00 a.m. At
this point of the trading day, which coincides with the opening hours of trading venues in Europe,
a distinct increase in volatility can be observed for all currency pairs. Again, volatility largely
declines afterwards until it shows the largest spike when New York trading commences. Further,
currencies remain volatile for the next three hours (approximately until 11:00 a.m. or 12:00 a.m.
Eastern time which is the time of the London fix), then drops over most of the intraday period,
and then spikes one last time when New York trading ceased.


                                                   26
C.    Currency Jumps

While the relative contribution of overnight and intraday volatility to total daily volatility appears
to be very similar across currencies, we next analyse if currencies are prone to exhibit sudden
crashes or return jumps at certain times of the day. For example, Lee and Wang (2016) argue that
jumps in the spot market are more likely to occur around the opening and closing hours of large
FX trading venues across the globe and that they occur in clusters. Further, Lee and Wang (2017)
split the day in a ‘Jump period’, around Tokyo closing time, and ‘No Jump period’ and propose a
modified carry trade strategy that accounts for currencies’ sensitivity for negative jumps. As the
jump sensitivity of funding currencies is larger than for investing currencies, the modified carry
trade strategy that unwinds positions at certain times of the day outperforms the conventional
carry trade approach.
     To detect currency return jumps, we employ the jump test proposed by Lee and Mykland
(2008) and account for return intra-week periodicity as in Boudt, Croux, and Laurent (2011).
Figure 8 displays the relative number of times that jumps occur at each 5-minute time stamp.
We explicitly distinguish between positive return jumps that imply a sudden appreciation of the
foreign currency vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar (blue) and return crashes, which capture for a sudden
depreciation of the foreign currency (yellow).

                                   [INSERT FIGURE 8 HERE]

As illustrated, most currencies tend to exhibit more jumps and crashes after trading in New York
ceases. This pattern is particular prevalent for European currencies and the Canadian dollar, while
jumps of the Australian dollar, New Zealand dollar, and Japanese yen are less common. This
observation points toward the close link between the occurrence of jumps and liquidity dynamics,
as latter currencies are likely to be more actively traded during the early hours of the new trading
day. Therefore, they are less likely to exhibit jumps compared to European currency pairs whose
main trading venues open at a later time of the day. Interestingly, it appears that the number
of currency jumps and crashes are almost the same over the entire trading day such that it is
unlikely that diverging intraday return patterns are explained by jump risk that is biased in one .
To investigate this observation more explicitly, Table VI shows the absolute and relative number
of jumps for each intraday subperiod.

                                                 27
                                   [INSERT TABLE VI HERE]

For all currency pairs, we find that jumps are relatively more likely to occur during the overnight
period. For example, for the Australian dollar 64% of all jumps occur overnight, while only 36%
of jumps occur between 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. (intraday period). As indicated earlier, this
pattern is even stronger for European currencies, for which up to 80% (CHF) of all jumps occur
during the overnight period. This is to some extent unsurprising, however, as the overnight period
encompasses 16 hours, while there are only 8 intraday hours. Important to note with respect
to the return pattern, however, is that the occurrence of currency jumps and crashes is almost
uniformly distributed in each sub-period and, therefore, over the entire trading day. As shown
in the last three columns of Table VI positive (J > 0) and negative (J < 0) jumps occur almost
with the same likelihood. Yet, if the W -shaped intraday return pattern of currencies could be
explained by currency crash risk, we would expect that the occurrences of currency crashes and
jumps differ during the intraday and overnight period. This would provide additional incentive to
short and invest certain currency pairs at certain hours of the day.


D.   Liquidity

Next, we examine FX market liquidity as a possible driver that impacts returns differently during
the night and over the day. Following earlier literature, we measure market liquidity by the
quoted bid-ask spread. An increase in the spread implies an increase in the cost of a transaction
and possibly exacerbates or delays the execution of a trade (Brunnermeier, Nagel, and Pedersen
(2009)). Hence, the market is considered to be more illiquid. In contrast, lower bid-ask spreads
imply a higher degree of liquidity. In Table VII we compare the average bid-ask spreads at close-to-
close time, and during intraday and overnight periods. In the bottom part of the panel we present
the t-statistic of conventional t-tests, assessing if liquidity conditions are significantly different
from each other across sub-periods.

                                   [INSERT TABLE VII HERE]

The following observations are worth noting. First, comparing the three periods, market liquidity
appears to be the lowest towards the end of New York’s main trading hours. At this time of the
day, the average bid-ask spread ranges between 3.50 (EUR) and 11.64 basis points (NZD). It is

                                                 28
on average higher at this point of the day than during overnight and intraday periods. Second,
                                                  ¯ ID ) and overnight (BAS
comparing liquidity conditions between intraday (BAS                     ¯ OV ) Table VII

indicates that trading costs are lower during the day for all currency pairs. Third, the absolute
difference between intraday and overnight bid-ask spreads ranges between 0.06 basis points (AUD)
and 1.06 (NOK). Even though some of the differences are small in magnitude, the t-statistics in the
bottom part of the table indicate that we strongly reject the null hypothesis for all currencies that
liquidity dynamics across sub-periods are the same. To shed further light on liquidity conditions
within each sub-period, we plot the bid-ask spread across all five minute intervals normalized by
average daily bid-ask spread.

                                    [INSERT FIGURE 7 HERE]

Starting in the left Panel of Figure 7, we note that liquidity conditions are relatively stable for
AUD, NOK, and JPY between 8:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. on the following day. While there exists
an increase in liquidity once European trading commences, intraday volatility stays reasonably
constant over time. These changes, however, during the last part of trading hours in New York. For
all three currencies the plots display a significant jump in illiquidity. Similar trends can be observed
for the European currencies and the Canadian dollar. Across all currencies, liquidity conditions
worsen towards the end of the intraday period and improve with the opening of trading venues in
the Asian-Pacific region. The decline in bid-ask spreads for European currencies, however, is less
distinct as for the AUD, NOK, and JPY. In fact, intraday liquidity conditions for CHF, EUR,
GBO, NOK, SEK, and CAD only significantly improve with increasing trading activity in Europe.


E.   Recessions and Crises Periods

While the sub-sample analysis already indicates that the diverging intraday and overnight re-
turn pattern is a common characteristic across the entire sample, lastly, we explicitly examine
if the intraday return patterns is driven by crises periods. To this end, we use NBER business
cycle classifications to identify recession periods and we consider all months between March 2001
and November 2001, and between December 2007 and June 2009, as crises periods. We then
re-construct and plot cumulative average 5-min returns over the trading day but explicitly distin-
guish between the 28 crisis-months and the remaining 228 months of the business cycle. We find


                                                  29
that separating the return patterns of crises periods from the sample does not have a significant
impact on the general intraday return pattern. Similar to the analysis that is based on the entire
sample, we find that foreign currencies tend to depreciate during the beginning of the trading
day, appreciate once trading in Singapore and Hong Kong commences, depreciate again during
the early trading hours in Europe, and then strongly appreciate during the main trading hours
in New York. During recession months, this pattern continues to exist for most of the currencies,
but it is less consistent across the sample. In particular the point in time when currencies start
to appreciate in the intraday periods appears to have shifted from 8:00 a.m. (EST) to the middle
of New York’s trading day. Overall, however, we conclude that the drift between overnight and
intraday returns is not driven by crisis periods and, in fact, that it is more pronounced in non-crisis
periods.


F.   FOMC Announcement Days

Fifth, we check to what extent average positive returns during the intraday period are positively
skewed by scheduled FOMC announcement days. As documented in Mueller, Tahbaz-Salehi, and
Vedolin (2017), foreign currencies tend to systematically appreciate on days, when monetary policy
decisions are announced at approximately 2.15 p.m. (EST). To control for these abnormal return
dynamics, we first identify all 192 scheduled FOMC announcement days between January 1994 and
December 20147, exclude these dates from our sample, and then re-calculate average annualized
returns for monthly overnight, intraday, and close-to-close returns. We find that excluding 168
out of 5991 days from the sample virtually does not have any strong effect on average annualized
returns and, more importantly, it does not affect the spread between the two intraday sub-periods.
For example, overnight returns continue to be negative and range between -8.69% and -0.98 for
GBP and CAD, respectively, while they are largely positive during the day (CAD: 1.17%; GBP:
8.32%). Again, the only exception to this trend is the Japanese yen which shows countercyclical
return dynamics compared to the rest of the sample. We conclude that the documented return
differences between the intraday and overnight period do not arise because of abnormal returns
during scheduled FOMC announcement days.




                                                  30
G.    Macroeconomic Announcement Days

In similar vein to the FOMC announcement days, we also explicitly account for macroeconomic
announcement. As many of them occur at 8:30 a.m., there might concerns that positive intraday
returns are driven by abnormal returns on these announcement days. Even though the number
of days with macroeconomic announcements is substantially higher than the number of FOMC
announcement days (1372 days between September 1996 to August 2016), we find that the split
between intraday and overnight returns continue to exist. Overnight returns range between -8.69%
and 1.60%, while intraday returns range between -1.60 % and 8.33 % for the British pound and
Japanese yen, respectively. We conclude that macroeconomic announcements do not drive the
differential between intraday and overnight returns.


               V.     Intraday Profitability and Transaction Costs

The analysis so far is based reported high-frequency mid-quotes and, hence, doesn’t account for
transaction costs. In this section we examine whether the trading strategies implied by the return
patterns are still profitable if transaction costs are explicitly taken into account. The return
decompositions in Table I suggest that a trader would have to shift positions up to four times over
the course of a 24-hour period to exploit all the exchange rate movements we document.
     The main purpose of this section is to establish whether there are some strategies that can
be profitably exploited or whether transaction costs positive returns for the various sub-periods
we consider. As discussed in section C, the most transparent and straightforward way to trade in
FX on an exchange is to use the CME futures. Since the CME quotes are executable, we start
our analysis of trading profits using the bid and ask prices of FX futures over the 1996 to 2017
sample. Using the return patterns documented in Table X we pick the best time period from our
subperiods over the day to take a long or short position in a particular currency, respectively.
We then calculate the average annualised returns taking the bid and ask spreads into account.
The results are summarized in Table XI and they are not very encouraging as all of the strategies
lead to significantly negative average annualized returns over the sample period we consider. This
means that the return pattern that we document for currency returns over the course of the day
cannot be systematically exploited by trading in FX futures.

                                                31
       This may seem surprising at first as futures are generally considered very liquid. However, this
is not necessarily the case in the FX market where a large fraction of the overall daily volumes is
still traded in the over-the-counter market and not on an exchange. In fact, the most liquid FX
futures, the EUR-USD contract, has spreads that are magnitudes larger than those of the most
liquid contracts on CME, the e-mini and the 10-year Treasury futures. Moreover, depending on
the intraday period the executable spreads in the futures are also often larger than the indicative
quotes we have through TRTH and Olsen. In fact, during the overnight period we find that bid-
ask spread of futures exceed the those in spot, on average, by 60%, while the costs of intraday
trading are only slightly lower on CME. Further, we note that bid-ask spreads tend do spike
more drastically in futures markets around New York closing time (5:00 p.m., EST) than in spot
markets, affecting the profit of the proposed strategies significantly as long and short positions are
opened and closed at this point in time of the day.
       Hence, we extend our analysis to the spot data based on indicative quotes. To calculate
returns net of transaction costs for the over-the-counter spot data we follow the existing literature
(see, e.g., Della Corte, Ramadorai, and Sarno (2016), Menkhoff, Sarno, Schmeling, and Schrimpf
(2012), Lustig, Roussanov, and Verdelhan (2011)) and use the quoted bid-ask spreads as a proxy
for the effective spread. However, Gilmore and Hayashi (2011) for example argue that the spreads
reported to the databases tend to be substantially wider compared to the effective spreads based
on firm quotes and executed trades. This leads to measures of net returns that are too conservative
compared to what professional traders that move large volumes can possibly achieve. Gargano,
Riddiough, and Sarno (2017) compare the bid-ask spreads from Datastream with quoted prices
from other data providers in the years after the financial crisis period and suggest decreasing
indicative spreads by up to 75% in order to obtain a more realistic proxy of the transaction costs
that big traders in the over-the-counter FX market face.
       When considering the profitability of the trading strategies based on the over-the-counter rates,
we take an agnostic approach and report results for different spread adjustments ranging from zero
to 75% in line with the existing literature.17 Moreover, we again pick the best sub-period over
  17
    We follow the approach in Gargano, Riddiough, and Sarno (2017) and verify that the daily bid-ask spreads
from the TRTH database closely resemble those from the publicly available indicative quotes from Datastream
and they are roughly comparable in size over the full sample period. This means that arguments with regards to
reducing the spreads to obtain more realistic results are broadly applicable in our context as well. More details on
the comparison of bid-ask spreads are provided in the Online Appendix.


                                                        32
the 24-hour day to be long and short a particular currency in our sample and report the results
in Table VIII. The left and the right panels denote the returns to entering into a short and a long
position for a given sub-period and currency.18

                                      [INSERT TABLE VIII HERE]

       Not very surprisingly, continuous buying and selling of currencies during particular times of the
day has a substantial impact on the profitability of intraday trading strategies. First, it is note-
worthy that the previously reported positive returns in both intraday periods vanish across almost
all currency pairs (except GBP intraday) when the entire reported bid-ask spread is considered as
a proxy of trading costs (−∆s100% ). Second, decreasing the bid-ask spread to more representative
levels of the effective spread, we find that selling and buying the most liquid currency pairs (CHF,
EUR, GBP) during the entire overnight and intraday period leads to positive net returns. For
example, if we consider 50% of the originally reported spread as the costs of trading (−∆s50% ),
an equally-weighted portfolio of the three currency pairs generates 3.50% and 2.41% during the
intraday and overnight period, respectively. For the euro (EUR) and British pound (GBP) these
returns are significant at least at the 5% level, while returns for the Swiss franc (CHF) are only
weakly significant (10%) during the day. Third, if we even allow to hold long and short positions
of individual currency pairs for sub-overnight periods, we obtain positive returns for all individual
currency pairs. If the spreads are decreased to 25% of the reported size (−∆s25% ), net returns
range between 0.21% if a short position of the Canadian dollar (CAD) is held during the main
south-east Asian trading hours, and 6.19% if a short position of the British pound (GBP) is held
during the entire overnight period. Further, the profitability of holding short or long positions
only during certain sub-periods of the day is confirmed by Sharpe ratios (Table IX) for which
volatility dynamics in each sub-period are taken into account. The risk-free rate is measured by
the 4-weeks U.S. Treasury Bill.

                                        [INSERT TABLE IX HERE]

As shown, Sharpe ratios are positive for long and short positions that were associated with signif-
icant and positive intraday net returns in the previous table. Depending on the size of the trans-
  18
    “ON” and “ID” denotes the entire overnight and intraday period, respectively. “SYD” is the first period during
the night after markets in the U.S. close, followed by the “SEA” and “EU” period, during which the Asian and
European markets open, respectively.


                                                       33
action costs, positive Sharpe ratios range between 0.12 (CHFID ) and 0.42 (GBPID ) for −∆s50%
and even increase to 0.77 (GBPID ) for −∆s25% . For the least conservative way of estimating
transaction costs, four out of nine long positions and short positions generate positive Sharpe
ratios. For the majority of these cases, the highest ratios are obtained from holding positions for
the entire overnight or intraday period, while shorter trading intervals are only preferable for the
Australian dollar and Japanese yen. Overall, the analysis exemplifies that investors can exploit
the systematic price trends between return reversals that occur around opening hours of major
FX trading venues and it shows that intraday trading in the FX spot market is profitable.


                                      VI.     Conclusion

In this paper we study currency risk premia around the clock for the G10 currencies. We find
that most currencies (with the exception of the Japanese yen) appreciate against the U.S. dollar
during New York trading hours (i.e., the intraday period) and depreciate during the rest of the
24 hour day (i.e., the overnight period). This finding implies that currency returns have distinct
dynamics depending on the time of day, measured with respect to the U.S. trading day.
   We revisit well-known results in the foreign exchange literature and find the following: (i)
Running Fama (1984) regressions to test the expectations hypothesis we cannot reject that the β
coefficient is equal to one for all currencies in the sample during the overnight period; (ii) carry
returns and dollar carry returns are almost entirely earned during the intraday period; (iii) the
dollar portfolio earns a significant positive return intraday but reverses equally strongly during
the night.
   In summary, we present novel stylised facts with respect to the most important global curren-
cies. The results suggest that the distinction between intraday and overnight periods is not only
important in the equity markets as documented by Lou, Polk, and Skouras (2017) but also in
the global foreign exchange market. These facts are intuitively appealing given the global nature
currency markets which trade globally in distinct geographical regions as the second hand of the
clock rotates. However, studying a number of risk based alternatives we fail to explain the basic
‘W’ shaped intraday return pattern of the dollar portfolio. We leave this as a puzzle to solve in
future research.


                                                34
VII.   Appendix: Tables




           35
                            Table I. Intraday Returns: By Main Trading Hours
   This table reports annualized average returns for different intraday periods. −∆sSY D refers to returns
   after trading in Sydney commenced (5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.); −∆sSEA refers to returns subsequent to the
   opening of the main trading venues in Southeast Asia (Singapore and Hong Kong, 9:00 p.m. to 3:00 a.m.);
   −∆sEU refers to returns during main trading hours in Europe (3:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m.); −∆sON refers
   to the overnight returns from an U.S. investors perspective. It equals the sum of the first three columns
   (−∆sAU S + −∆sSEA + −∆sEU ). −∆sID refers to the intraday returns during the main trading hours in
   New York (8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.). −∆sCT C refers to daily close-to-close returns between 5:00 p.m. on
   day t and 5:00 p.m. on day t + 1 (−∆sCT C = −(∆sON + ∆sID ) ). ”dol” refers to the unconditional dollar
   portfolio that goes long all foreign currencies, and ”dol (excl. JPY)” is the unconditional dollar portfolio
   that invests in all foreign currencies except the Japanese yen. Positive values imply the foreign currency
   appreciates versus the U.S. dollar. All times are measured in Eastern Standard Time, taking into account
   daylight saving changes in New York. The sample period is January 1994 to December 2017, comprising
   288 monthly observations.

                   −∆sSY D           −∆sSEA            −∆sEU           −∆sON           −∆sID           −∆sCT C

   AUD                -6.48             4.40            -0.31            -2.40            2.94             0.54
                     (-6.50)          (4.52)           (-0.29)          (-1.44)         (1.94)           (0.22)
   CAD                -2.51             3.05            -1.52            -0.98            1.17             0.18
                     (-5.38)          (5.87)           (-1.94)          (-0.92)         (0.83)           (0.11)
   CHF                -2.48             0.47            -4.82            -6.83            8.61            1.78
                     (-3.36)          (0.61)           (-4.10)          (-4.82)         (5.55)           (0.83)
   EUR                -4.51             4.02            -7.03            -7.52            7.80             0.28
                     (-6.74)          (5.92)           (-7.60)          (-6.02)         (5.26)           (0.14)
   GBP                -5.55            -0.07            -3.06            -8.69           8.33             -0.36
                     (-9.54)          (-0.12)          (-3.22)          (-6.96)         (6.86)           (-0.21)
   JPY                -2.07             5.06            -1.39             1.60           -1.60             0.00
                     (-2.24)          (5.34)           (-1.25)          (0.97)          (-1.24)          (-0.00)
   NOK                -2.34             3.80            -5.45            -3.98            3.63            -0.35
                     (-2.96)          (4.08)           (-4.61)          (-2.65)         (2.06)           (-0.16)
   NZD                -8.62             6.34            -0.94            -3.21            4.17            0.96
                     (-7.60)          (5.46)           (-0.83)          (-1.59)         (2.81)           (0.38)
   SEK                -2.22            3.26             -6.82            -5.78            5.87             0.09
                     (-2.66)          (3.26)           (-5.96)          (-3.63)         (3.01)           (0.04)
    dol               -4.13            3.19             -3.05            -3.99            4.03             0.05
                     (-7.84)          (8.12)           (-3.66)          (-3.76)         (3.70)           (0.03)
    dol               -4.37            3.13             -3.39            -4.63            4.76             0.14
(excl. JPY)          (-7.79)          (7.32)           (-3.78)          (-4.08)         (4.10)           (0.08)




                                                       36
                       Table II. Forward Premium Puzzle: Intraday vs. Overnight
     This table reports results from estimating the following regression with ordinary least squares

                                             st+h − st = α + β(ft,h − st ) + 

     where st+h −st refers to the monthly close-to-close, intraday, or overnight return in period t+h, ft,h denotes
     the end-of-month log forward rate with maturity h, and st is the end-of-month log spot rate. Returns are
     multiplied by the factor 100, such that all variables are expressed in percent per month. The maturity of
     the forward rate is 1 month (h = 1). The forward discount is calculated using Datastream forward rates
     and spot rates. Numbers in parentheses refer to standard t-statistics if the estimated co-efficient is equal
     to zero. The row β = 1 reports the t-statistic of a simple t-test with the null hypotheses that β = 1. The
     sample period is January 1994 to December 2017, comprising 288 monthly observations. ***,**, and *
     denote statistical significance at the 10%, 5% and 1% level, respectively. Numbers in parentheses display
     Newey-West standard errors.

 Panel A: Close-to-close

            AUD         CAD         CHF           EUR         GBP          JPY       NOK         NZD          SEK

α̂           0.26       -0.01       -0.33         -0.13        0.11       -0.04       0.05       -0.17         0.02
           (1.07)      (-0.10)     (-1.15)       (-0.73)     (0.56)      (-0.13)    (0.28)      (-0.38)      (0.08)
β̂          -1.76       -1.28       -1.18         -2.93       -1.28       -0.22      -0.26        0.42        -1.14
           (-1.24)     (-0.79)     (-0.79)       (-2.06)     (-0.83)     (-0.20)    (-0.19)     (0.19)       (-1.07)
β=1        (-1.94)     (-1.40)     (-1.47)       (-2.76)     (-1.47)     (-1.12)    (-0.94)     (-0.27)      (-2.01)
R̄2          0.00        0.00       0.00           0.01        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00         0.00

 Panel B: Intraday

            AUD         CAD         CHF           EUR         GBP          JPY       NOK         NZD          SEK

α̂          -0.04       -0.10       -0.94         -0.74       -0.57       -0.02      -0.29       -0.59        -0.48
           (-0.29)     (-0.73)     (-4.11)       (-5.74)     (-4.63)     (-0.12)    (-1.92)     (-2.65)      (-2.56)
β̂          -1.25       -2.41       -1.42         -2.52       -2.05       -0.72      -0.08        1.09        -1.63
           (-1.53)     (-1.43)     (-1.26)       (-2.38)     (-2.11)     (-1.17)    (-0.09)     (1.17)       (-1.37)
β=1        (-2.76)     (-2.03)     (-2.15)       (-3.33)     (-3.14)     (-2.81)    (-1.15)     (0.10)       (-2.21)
R̄2          0.00        0.01       0.00           0.01        0.01        0.00       0.00        0.00         0.01

 Panel C: Overnight

            AUD         CAD         CHF           EUR         GBP          JPY       NOK         NZD          SEK

α̂           0.30       0.08        0.61           0.61        0.68       -0.01       0.34        0.42        0.49
           (1.41)      (0.83)      (3.00)        (5.29)      (4.58)      (-0.07)    (2.46)      (1.01)       (3.58)
β̂          -0.51       1.13         0.25         -0.41        0.77        0.50      -0.17       -0.67        0.49
           (-0.48)     (0.91)      (0.24)        (-0.41)     (0.66)      (0.67)     (-0.22)     (-0.36)      (0.47)
β=1        (-1.40)     (0.10)      (-0.73)       (-1.41)     (-0.20)     (-0.66)    (-1.46)     (-0.90)      (-0.49)
R̄2          0.00       0.00        0.00           0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00         0.00




                                                            37
                               Table III. Carry Trade: Intraday vs. Overnight
    This table reports the average annualized portfolio returns from a conventional carry trade strategy
    (Panel A). At the beginning of each month, currencies are sorted according to their forward discount in
    the previous month. The forward discount is defined as f p = ft − st , where ft refers to the log forward
    rate with one-month maturity and st is the log spot rate. Currencies with a low (high) forward discount
    are assigned to portfolio P1 (P3). Currencies are held for one month and then re-allocated to a new
    portfolio. The column ”P3-P1” refers to a high-minus-low strategy that goes long currencies in P3 and
    short currencies that are allocated to P1. ”dol” refers to the unconditional dollar portfolio that invests
    equally in all foreign currencies. In Panel B, Intraday-Overnight refers to the return obtain from a strategy
    that goes long all portfolios during the day, and that shorts portfolios over night. In Panel C, Reversal
    strategies are based on a strategy that goes long the best (worse) performing portfolio intraday and that
    sells the worst (best) performing portfolio during overnight periods. Returns are annualized by multiplying
    log-returns by 12, and then by the factor 100 to express numbers in percent. Further, for intraday and
    overnight returns, we assume that the forward premium is earned equally during the overnight and intraday
                                                                                     Over/Intra
    period. For these two daily sub-periods, excess returns are constructed as: (rxt+1          = ft −s
                                                                                                     2 −∆st+1 ).
                                                                                                        t


    The sample period is January 1994 to December 2017, comprising 288 monthly observations.

 Panel A: Carry Trade

                           P1                 P2                 P3               P3-P1                dol

Close-to-close
rxCT C
 ¯                        -1.44              0.18               2.89               4.33               0.62
t-stat                   (-0.88)            (0.10)             (1.41)             (2.63)             (0.39)

Intraday
rxID
 ¯                         2.74              5.32               6.00               3.25               4.72
t-stat                    (2.31)            (4.13)             (4.44)             (3.30)             (4.07)

Overnight
rxON
 ¯                        -4.17              -5.09              -3.05              1.12               -4.05
t-stat                   (-3.89)            (-4.82)            (-2.17)            (0.85)             (-4.05)

 Panel B: Intraday-Overnight Trading
                           P1                 P2                 P3               P3-P1                dol

rxID−ON
 ¯                         6.91             10.41               9.05               2.13               8.78
t-stat                    (4.46)            (6.47)             (4.92)             (1.31)             (6.10)

 Panel C: Reversal Strategies
                             P 3Intra − P 1Over                    P 1Intra − P 3Over

Ann. Avg.                          10.16                                  5.80
t-stat                             (6.04)                                (3.36)




                                                         38
                      Table IV. Dollar Carry Trade: Intraday vs. Overnight
This table reports the average annualized return of a dollar carry
                                                                 PN trading strategy, where portfolios are
sorted according to the average forward discount f¯t − s̄t = N1 i=1 fti − sit , where f¯t − s̄t is the average
monthly forward discount, and fti and sit are the one-month log forward rate and log spot rate for country
i, respectively. The column ”AFD ≤ 0” refers to the average return from a strategy where investors sell
foreign currencies at the beginning of a month (128 months) if the lagged average foreign interest rate in
the previous month is below the U.S. interest rate (and no trade is executed otherwise). The column ”AFD
> 0” refers to a strategy where investors go long foreign currencies (160) at the beginning of the month
if the average forward discount in the previous month is positive (and no trade is executed otherwise).
”Dollar-Carry” refers to the strategy where investors buy foreign currencies at the beginning of a month,
when the average foreign discount in the previous month is positive, and foreign currencies are shorted
otherwise. ”dol” is the return from an unconditional dollar portfolio where investors go long all foreign
currencies if the AFD in the previous month is positive. ”AFD < 0 (excl. 0)” and ”AFD > 0 (excl. 0)”
refer to the average annualized returns if we only consider months, in which a trade was conducted. In
Panel B, Intraday-Overnight refers to the returns obtain from a strategy that going long currencies during
the day, and selling currencies overnight. In Panel C, Reversal strategies are based on a strategy that goes
long the best (worse) performing portfolio intraday and that sells the worst (best) performing portfolio
during overnight periods. The sample period is January 1994 to December 2017, comprising 288 monthly
observations.

  Panel A: Dollar Carry

                                                                                AFD ≤ 0        AFD > 0
                     AFD ≤ 0       AFD > 0        Dollar-Carry         dol
                                                                                (excl. 0)      (excl. 0)

 Close-to-close
 rxCT C
  ¯                    -1.51          2.14             3.65           0.62        -3.42           3.83
 t-stat               (-1.57)        (1.65)           (2.27)         (0.39)      (-1.58)         (1.66)
 Obs                    288           288              288            288          128            160

 Intraday
 rxID
  ¯                     0.93          3.79             2.86           4.72         2.11           6.80
 t-stat                (1.31)        (4.09)           (2.42)         (4.07)       (1.31)         (4.18)

 Overnight
 rxON
  ¯                    -2.43          -1.63            0.80           -4.05       -5.48          -2.92
 t-stat               (-4.15)        (-1.96)          (0.78)         (-4.05)     (-4.31)        (-1.97)

  Panel B: Intraday-Overnight Trading
                                                                                AFD ≤ 0        AFD > 0
                     AFD ≤ 0       AFD > 0        Dollar-Carry         dol
                                                                                (excl. 0)      (excl. 0)

 rxID−ON
  ¯                     3.36          5.42             2.06           8.78         7.59           9.72
 t-stat                (3.83)        (4.54)           (1.35)         (6.10)       (3.95)         (4.66)

  Panel C: Reversal Strategies

                         AF D > 0Intra - AF D ≤ 0Over                 AF D ≤ 0Intra - AF D > 0Over
 Ann. Avg.                              6.22                                         2.56
 t-stat                                (5.83)                                       (2.35)


                                                     39
                          Table V. Intraday Returns: Variance Decomposition
                                                                                                 2
   This table reports the variance decomposition based on monthly intraday return series. σID        refers to the
   monthly return variance during main trading hours in New York (8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., EST ), while
    2
   σON  is the monthly return variance over night (5:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m., EST). 2 × cov(IN,ON ) refers to
                                         2
   the covariance of these two series, σCT  C denotes the monthly return variance of close-to-close returns,
   sampled at 5:00 p.m. (EST). ”dol” refers to the unconditional dollar portfolio that goes long all foreign
   currencies, and ”dol (excl. JPY)” is the unconditional dollar portfolio that invests in all foreign currencies
   except the Japanese yen. Numbers in parentheses refer to the weight that each intraday return variance
   contributes to the monthly variance of close-to-close returns. The sum of the intraday variances and the
                                                                                                      2
   covariance term (first three columns) equals to the monthly variance in the last column (σCT          C ). The
   sample period is January 1994 to December 2017, comprising 288 monthly observations.

                           2                    2                                                   2
                          σID                  σON                 2 × cov(IN,ON )                 σCT C

  AUD                     4.59                 5.55                       1.46                     11.60
                         [0.40]               [0.48]                     [0.13]                    [1.00]
  CAD                     3.92                 2.28                      -0.27                      5.92
                         [0.66]               [0.38]                    [-0.05]                    [1.00]
  CHF                     4.81                 4.01                       0.44                      9.25
                         [0.52]               [0.43]                     [0.05]                    [1.00]
  EUR                     4.40                 3.12                       0.69                      8.21
                         [0.54]               [0.38]                     [0.08]                    [1.00]
  GBP                     2.95                 3.12                      -0.26                      5.81
                         [0.51]               [0.54]                    [-0.04]                    [1.00]
  JPY                     3.36                 5.44                       1.04                      9.84
                         [0.34]               [0.55]                     [0.11]                    [1.00]
  NOK                     6.22                 4.51                      -1.07                      9.66
                         [0.64]               [0.47]                    [-0.11]                    [1.00]
  NZD                     4.43                 8.13                      -0.02                     12.53
                         [0.35]               [0.65]                    [-0.00]                    [1.00]
  SEK                     7.63                 5.08                      -2.71                     10.00
                         [0.76]               [0.51]                    [-0.27]                    [1.00]
   dol                    2.37                 2.25                       0.55                      5.18
                         [0.46]               [0.44]                     [0.11]                    [1.00]
    dol                   2.69                 2.57                       0.63                      5.89
(excl. JPY               [0.46]               [0.44]                     [0.11]                    [1.00]




                                                         40
                      Table VI. Intraday Jump Risk: Intraday Versus Overnight
  This table reports the absolute and relative number of jumps for each currency pair for the overnight and
  intraday period, and for the entire day. Jumps are detected using the Lee and Mykland (2008) jump test
  statistic, where intraweek periodicity is taken into account following the procedure in Boudt, Croux, and
  Laurent (2011). The level of significance for the jump statistic is 5%. The test is based on 5-minute return
  data. J > 0 refers to the number of positive jumps (appreciation of foreign currency), J < 0 denotes
  the number of negative jumps (depreciation of foreign currency), and J is the total number of jumps.
  Numbers in brackets refer to the relative number of jumps in the sub-period, in percent, compared to the
  total number of jumps. −∆sON refers to the overnight period (5:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. EST), −∆sID
  denotes the intraday period (8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.), and −∆sCT C refers to close-to-close, capturing the
  dynamics of the entire trading day. The sample period is January 1994 to December 2017.

                    −∆sON                               −∆sIN                              −∆sCT C
        J >0         J <0          J          J >0         J <0        J        J >0         J <0          J
AUD     5,698        6,353       12,051       3,479        3,692     7,171      9,177        10,045      19,222
         [30]         [33]        [63]         [18]         [19]      [37]       [48]         [52]        [100]
CAD     11,777       11,409      23,186       2,837        2,539     5,376      14,614       13,948      28,562
         [41]         [40]        [81]         [10]          [9]      [19]       [51]         [49]        [100]
CHF      8,406       8,239       16,645       3,229        2,939     6,168      11,635       11,178      22,813
          [37]        [36]        [73]         [14]         [13]      [27]       [51]         [49]        [100]
EUR      5,652       5,774       11,426       3,050        2,955     6,005       8,702       8,729       17,431
          [32]        [33]        [66]         [17]         [17]      [34]        [50]        [50]        [100]
GBP      7,618       7,980       15,598       3,394        3,224     6,618      11,012       11,204      22,216
          [34]        [36]        [70]         [15]         [15]      [30]       [50]         [50]        [100]
JPY      5,659       5,098       10,757       3,261        2,958     6,219       8,920       8,056       16,976
          [33]        [30]        [63]         [19]         [17]      [37]        [53]        [47]        [100]
NOK     13,747       13,842      27,589       3,765        3,602     7,367      17,512       17,444      34,956
         [39]         [40]        [79]         [11]         [10]      [21]       [50]         [50]        [100]
NZD      7,233       7,492       14,725       4,365        4,437     8,802      11,598       11,929      23,527
          [31]        [32]        [63]         [19]         [19]      [37]       [49]         [51]        [100]
SEK     13,367       13,235      26,602       3,974        3,918     7,892      17,341       17,153      34,494




                                                      41
                        Table VII. Liquidity Dynamics: Average Bid-Ask Spread
  This table reports the average bid-ask spread ( ask−bid
                                                     mid ) expressed in basis points, for close-to-close
     ¯   CT C               ¯ ID                                                ¯ ON , 5:00 p.m. to 8:00
  (BAS        ), intraday (BAS , 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., EST), and overnight (BAS
  a.m., EST) periods. Bid-ask spreads are measured in basis points. The bottom part shows t-statistics of
                                          ¯ i = BAS
  a t-test with the null hypothesis H0 : BAS      ¯ j where i 6= j and i, j = CT C, ID, ON . The sample
  period is January 1994 to December 2017, comprising 288 monthly observations.


                       AUD       CAD       CHF       EUR      GBP       JPY       NOK       NZD       SEK

     ¯ CT C
    BAS                6.55      4.41       5.12     3.50      3.53     4.47       7.68     11.64     9.31
      ¯ ID
    BAS                6.19      4.17       4.62     3.13      3.20     4.10       6.62      9.76     8.26
     ¯ ON
    BAS                6.14      4.52       4.82     3.31      3.28     4.18       7.75     10.23     8.96

 ¯ CT C = BAS
BAS        ¯ ID         8.26     11.06     16.25    14.25     14.16     11.76     21.84      28.91    16.66
 ¯ CT C = BAS
BAS        ¯ ON        10.61     -4.78     9.64      6.75     11.54     9.50      -1.14      21.98    5.71
  ¯ ON = BAS
BAS        ¯ ID        10.22    -128.41   -52.94    -56.28    -26.35   -21.65    -157.69    -59.41   -81.53




                                                    42
                                      Table VIII. Net Returns: Long and Short Positions of Foreign Currencies
         This table reports average annualized net spot returns for short and long positions of foreign currencies across different sub-periods of the
         trading day associated with the main trading hour of the largest FX trading venues: Sydney (”SYD”, 5:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m.), south-east Asia
         (”SEA”, 9:00 p.m. – 3:00 a.m.), Europe (”EU”, 3:00 a.m. – 8:00 a.m.), overnight (”ON”, 5:00 p.m. – 8:00 a.m.) and intraday (”ID”, 8:00
         a.m. – 5:00 p.m. ). −∆si% refers to the spot returns net of the bid-ask spread, where i = 100%, 75%, 50%, and 25% denote the proportion
         of the original bid-ask spread, which is used to proxy transaction costs. For long (short) overnight positions foreign currencies are bought
         (sold) at the ask (bid) price at the start of the trading period, and sold (bought) at the bid (ask) price at the end of the trading period.
         We only report the most profitable long and short positions. For the ease of reading, positive returns are highlighted in red. Numbers in
         parentheses refer to t-statistics. The sample period is January 1994 to December 2017, comprising 288 monthly observations. ‘

                                        Short Positions                                                              Long Positions

                     −∆s100%         −∆s75%         −∆s50%        −∆s25%                          −∆s100%         −∆s75%         −∆s50%         −∆s25%

     AU DSY D           -9.56          -5.61         -1.66           2.30        AU DSEA            -10.96          -7.12          -3.28           0.56
                       (-9.50)        (-5.65)       (-1.68)        (2.34)                          (-10.85)        (-7.19)        (-3.35)        (0.57)
     CADSY D            -8.99          -6.13         -3.27          -0.40        CADSEA              -8.30          -5.47          -2.63           0.21
                      (-17.58)       (-12.34)       (-6.74)        (-0.85)                         (-15.42)       (-10.31)        (-5.02)        (0.40)
     CHF ON             -5.92          -2.90         0.12            3.14        CHF ID              -3.47          -0.45           2.57           5.59
43
                       (-4.03)        (-1.98)       (0.09)         (2.17)                           (-2.20)        (-0.29)        (1.65)         (3.60)
     EU RON             -1.07           0.96         2.99            5.03        EU RID              -0.33           1.70           3.74           5.77
                       (-0.85)        (0.77)        (2.40)         (4.03)                           (-0.22)        (1.15)         (2.52)         (3.90)
     GBP ON             0.00            2.06          4.13           6.19        GBP ID               0.07           2.14           4.20           6.26
                       (0.00)         (1.67)        (3.35)         (5.03)                           (0.06)         (1.76)         (3.46)         (5.16)
     JP Y SY D          -8.98          -6.26         -3.55          -0.83        JP Y SEA            -5.44          -2.82          -0.19           2.43
                       (-9.71)        (-6.83)       (-3.89)        (-0.91)                          (-5.61)        (-2.93)        (-0.20)        (2.57)
     N OK EU           -11.16          -7.11         -3.07           0.97        N OK ID            -13.63          -9.31          -5.00          -0.68
                       (-9.28)        (-5.97)       (-2.59)        (0.83)                           (-7.48)        (-5.16)        (-2.80)        (-0.38)
     N ZDSY D          -19.91         -12.84         -5.78           1.28        N ZDSEA            -19.17         -12.79          -6.41          -0.04
                      (-16.06)       (-10.77)       (-4.98)        (1.12)                          (-15.40)       (-10.64)        (-5.47)        (-0.03)
     SEK EU            -13.99          -8.89         -3.79           1.31        SEK ID             -15.73         -10.33          -4.93           0.47
                      (-11.56)        (-7.52)       (-3.27)        (1.14)                           (-7.90)        (-5.23)        (-2.51)        (0.24)
                                    Table IX. Sharpe Ratios: Long and Short Positions of Foreign Currencies
                                                                       µ−R
        This table reports average annualized Sharpe ratios (SR = σ f ) for short and long positions of foreign currencies across different sub-
        periods of the trading day associated with the main trading hour of the largest FX trading venues: Sydney (”SYD”, 5:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m.),
        south-east Asia (”SEA”, 9:00 p.m. – 3:00 a.m.), Europe (”EU”, 3:00 a.m. – 8:00 a.m.), overnight (”ON”, 5:00 p.m. – 8:00 a.m.) and
        intraday (”ID”, 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. ). −∆si% refers to the spot returns net of the bid-ask spread, where i = 100%, 75%, 50%, and 25%
        denote the proportion of the original bid-ask spread, which is used to proxy transaction costs. For long (short) overnight positions foreign
        currencies are bought (sold) at the ask (bid) price at the start of the trading period, and sold (bought) at the bid (ask) price at the end of
        the trading period. We only report the most profitable long and short positions. The risk-free rate refers to the 4-weeks U.S. Treasury Bill.
        For the ease of reading, positive returns are highlighted in red. Numbers in parentheses refer to t-statistics. The sample period is January
        1994 to December 2017, comprising 288 monthly observations. ‘

                                       Short Positions                                                               Long Positions

44                 −∆s100%         −∆s75%          −∆s50%         −∆s25%                         −∆s100%         −∆s75%          −∆s50%         −∆s25%

     AUDSY D          -2.23          -1.47          -0.68            0.13        AUDSEA             -2.49          -1.77          -1.01           -0.23
     CADON            -2.20          -1.70          -1.20           -0.69        CADID              -1.63          -1.24          -0.85           -0.46
     CHFON            -1.05          -0.64          -0.21            0.21        CHFID              -0.66          -0.27          0.12             0.51
     EURON            -0.44          -0.11          0.22             0.55        EURID              -0.27           0.01           0.29            0.56
     GBPON            -0.27           0.07          0.41             0.75        GBPID              -0.26           0.08          0.43             0.77
     JPYSY D          -2.30          -1.73          -1.15           -0.55        JPYSEA             -1.46          -0.93          -0.39            0.17
     NOKEU            -2.23          -1.54          -0.83           -0.12        NOKID              -1.72          -1.25          -0.76           -0.27
     NZDSY D          -3.48          -2.44          -1.29           -0.07        NZDSEA             -3.32          -2.39          -1.37           -0.29
     SEKEU            -2.63          -1.82          -0.96           -0.06        SEKID              -1.77          -1.24          -0.68           -0.12
                   Table X. CME Futures Intraday Returns: By Main Trading Hours
   This table reports average annualized net returns for short and long positions of FX futures traded on
   the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) for different sub-periods of the trading day associated with the
   main trading hour of the largest FX trading venues: Sydney (”SYD”, 5:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m.), south-east
   Asia (”SEA”, 9:00 p.m. – 3:00 a.m.), Europe (”EU”, 3:00 a.m. – 8:00 a.m.), overnight (”ON”, 5:00 p.m.
   – 8:00 a.m.) and intraday (”ID”, 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. ). For long (short) overnight positions foreign
   currencies are bought (sold) at the ask (bid) price at the start of the trading period, and sold (bought) at
   the bid (ask) price at the end of the trading period. We only report the most long and short positions.
   For each currency pair we report the most profitable short and long positions. Numbers in parentheses
   refer to t-statistics. For the majority of FX futures, the sample period is January 1996 to December 2017,
   comprising 264 monthly observations. Due to data availability, the sample starts in January 1999 for EUR
   and in 2005 for NOK, NZD, and SEK.

                   −∆sSY D           −∆sSEA            −∆sEU           −∆sON           −∆sID           −∆sCT C

   AUD                -5.19             1.16             0.82            -3.20            3.34             0.14
                     (-4.75)          (1.10)           (0.70)           (-1.68)         (2.09)           (0.06)
   CAD                -2.92             3.21            -0.84            -0.55            0.88             0.33
                     (-3.87)          (5.40)           (-1.00)          (-0.40)         (0.60)           (0.18)
   CHF                -3.50             1.81            -3.48            -5.17            5.96             0.79
                     (-4.44)          (2.12)           (-2.78)          (-3.34)         (3.88)           (0.36)
   EUR                -5.23             4.55            -5.66            -6.36            6.62             0.26
                     (-7.05)          (5.75)           (-5.26)          (-4.21)         (3.93)           (0.11)
   GBP                -3.02            -0.92            -2.43            -6.37            5.74            -0.63
                     (-3.94)          (-1.30)          (-2.47)          (-4.60)         (4.38)           (-0.36)
   JPY                -3.98             6.56            -1.36             1.22           -1.59            -0.37
                     (-4.37)          (6.29)           (-1.26)          (0.72)          (-1.15)          (-0.17)
   NOK                -4.22            -0.54             0.34            -4.47            2.41            -2.06
                     (-1.02)          (-0.34)          (0.18)           (-0.96)         (0.50)           (-0.70)
   NZD                -9.14             2.69             0.94            -5.48            5.53             0.05
                     (-4.15)          (1.59)           (0.56)           (-1.70)         (2.33)           (0.01)
   SEK               -15.39             3.46             0.10           -11.84           10.57            -1.26
                     (-1.90)          (2.55)           (0.02)           (-2.10)         (2.00)           (-0.41)
    dol               -5.63            2.20             -0.61            -4.04            4.03            -0.23
                     (-4.50)          (3.68)           (-0.50)          (-2.52)         (2.55)           (-0.10)
    dol               -6.22            1.71             -0.28            -4.79            4.77            -0.26
(excl. JPY)          (-4.48)          (2.62)           (-0.21)          (-2.72)         (2.76)           (-0.11)




                                                       45
                  Table XI. Net Returns: Long and Short Positions of CME Futures
    This table reports average annualized net spot returns for short and long positions of FX futures traded
    on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), across different sub-periods of the trading day associated
    with the main trading hour of the largest FX trading venues: Sydney (“SYD”, 5:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m.),
    south-east Asia (“SEA”, 9:00 p.m. – 3:00 a.m.), Europe (”EU”, 3:00 a.m. – 8:00 a.m.), overnight (“ON”,
    5:00 p.m. – 8:00 a.m.) and intraday (“ID”, 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. ). For long (short) overnight positions
    foreign currencies are bought (sold) at the ask (bid) price at the start of the trading period, and sold
    (bought) at the bid (ask) price at the end of the trading period. We only report the most profitable long
    and short positions across the trading day. For the ease of reading, positive returns are highlighted in red.
    Numbers in parentheses refer to t-statistics. For the majority of FX futures, the sample period is January
    1996 to December 2017, comprising 264 monthly observations. Due to data availability, the sample starts
    in January 1999 for EUR and in 2005 for NOK, NZD, and SEK.


 Panel A: Short Positions

AU DEU       CADEU        CHF EU        EU REU       GBP EU        JP Y EU     N OK EU       N ZDEU       SEK EU

-32.12        -11.56       -10.94         -2.25        -9.42        -9.29        -92.29       -14.97       -190.29
(-10.71)     (-10.82)      (-5.95)       (-1.68)      (-6.80)      (-6.32)       (-8.33)      (-7.86)      (-2.06)

 Panel B: Long Positions

AUDSEA      CADSEA        CHFSEA       EURSEA        GBPSEA       JPYSEA       NOKSEA        NZDSEA       SEKSEA

-28.07         -9.98       -13.19         -3.77       -13.21        -4.82        -97.08       -14.86       -138.66
(-10.77)     (-11.12)      (-9.47)       (-3.51)     (-11.20)      (-4.39)       (-8.99)      (-6.93)      (-2.83)




                                                         46
                                                    VIII.      Appendix: Figures



                                                                                                     4
                                                      2
      0                                                                                              2
                                                      0
      -2                                                                                             0
                                                     -2
      -4                                                                                             -2
                                                     -4
                                                                                                     -4
      -6                                             -6
                                                                                                     -6
      -8                                             -8
           17
           18
           19
           20
           21
           22
           23
            0
            1
            2
            3
            4                                             17
                                                          18
                                                          19
                                                          20
                                                          21
                                                          22
                                                          23
                                                           0
                                                           1
                                                           2
                                                           3
                                                           4                                              17
                                                                                                          18
                                                                                                          19
                                                                                                          20
                                                                                                          21
                                                                                                          22
                                                                                                          23
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                           4
            5
            6
            7
            8
            9
           10
           11
           12
           13
           14
           15
           16                                              5
                                                           6
                                                           7
                                                           8
                                                           9
                                                          10
                                                          11
                                                          12
                                                          13
                                                          14
                                                          15
                                                          16                                               5
                                                                                                           6
                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                           8
                                                                                                           9
                                                                                                          10
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                          12
                                                                                                          13
                                                                                                          14
                                                                                                          15
                                                                                                          16
           17                                             17                                              17



                                                      0                                              2
      0
                                                     -2                                              0

                                                     -4                                              -2
      -5
                                                     -6                                              -4

47                                                   -8                                              -6

     -10   17
           18
           19
           20
           21
           22                                       -10   17
                                                          18
                                                          19
                                                          20
                                                          21
                                                          22                                         -8   17
                                                                                                          18
                                                                                                          19
                                                                                                          20
                                                                                                          21
                                                                                                          22
           23
            0
            1
            2
            3
            4
            5
            6
            7
            8
            9
           10                                             23
                                                           0
                                                           1
                                                           2
                                                           3
                                                           4
                                                           5
                                                           6
                                                           7
                                                           8
                                                           9
                                                          10                                              23
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                           5
                                                                                                           6
                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                           8
                                                                                                           9
                                                                                                          10
           11
           12
           13
           14
           15
           16
           17                                             11
                                                          12
                                                          13
                                                          14
                                                          15
                                                          16
                                                          17                                              11
                                                                                                          12
                                                                                                          13
                                                                                                          14
                                                                                                          15
                                                                                                          16
                                                                                                          17




      4                                               0
                                                                                                     1
                                                     -2                                              0
      2
                                                     -4                                              -1
      0                                                                                              -2
                                                     -6
      -2                                                                                             -3
                                                     -8
                                                                                                     -4
           17
           18
           19
           20
           21
           22                                       -10   17
                                                          18
                                                          19
                                                          20
                                                          21
                                                          22                                              17
                                                                                                          18
                                                                                                          19
                                                                                                          20
                                                                                                          21
                                                                                                          22
           23
            0
            1
            2
            3
            4
            5
            6
            7
            8
            9
           10                                             23
                                                           0
                                                           1
                                                           2
                                                           3
                                                           4
                                                           5
                                                           6
                                                           7
                                                           8
                                                           9
                                                          10                                              23
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                           5
                                                                                                           6
                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                           8
                                                                                                           9
                                                                                                          10
           11
           12
           13
           14
           15
           16
           17                                             11
                                                          12
                                                          13
                                                          14
                                                          15
                                                          16
                                                          17                                              11
                                                                                                          12
                                                                                                          13
                                                                                                          14
                                                                                                          15
                                                                                                          16
                                                                                                          17




                                       Figure 1. Cumulative 5-min Returns of Individual Currencies
     This figure displays cumulative average annualized 5-min returns (−∆s) over the course of a trading day. The grey-shaded area marks the
     main trading hours in New York (8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. EST). Hours (x-axis) refer to Eastern Standard Time (EST). The sample period
     comprises all months between January 1994 to December 2017.
       2.5

                                                                                                                                             FX Spot
                                                                                                                                             FX Futures
        2                                                                                                                                                 6



       1.5
                                                                                                                                                          4


        1


                                                                                                                                                          2
       0.5



        0                                                                                                                                                 0



      -0.5
                                                                                                                                                          -2


        -1

48                                                                                                                                                        -4
      -1.5



        -2                                                                                                                                                -6



      -2.5                                       0     1     2     3    4     5     6     7    8     9
             17   18   19   20   21   22    23                                                             10    11   12    13    14    15       16




                                 Figure 2. Cumulative 5-min Returns of the Unconditional Dollar Portfolio
     This figure displays the development of the unconditional dollar portfolio over the course of the trading day. The bars refer to the average
     hourly return within each hour. Grey bars mark the main trading hours in New York (8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.) and blue bars refer to the
     overnight period. The black line shows the cumulative average annualized 5-min returns (−∆s) of the unconditional dollar portfolio that
     goes long all foreign currencies. An increase of the dollar portfolio implies that foreign currencies appreciate against the U.S. dollar. Trading
     hours (x-axis) refer to Eastern Standard Time (EST). The sample period comprises all months between January 1994 to December 2017.
                                                                                                                                                                                           49



                                                                                                                                                    0.5       1       1.5       2      0   0.5   1       1.5   2   2.5      0   0.5   1       1.5   2   2.5
                                                                                                                                                 1994                               1994                                 1994

                                                                                                                                                 1996                               1996                                 1996

                                                                                                                                                 1998                               1998                                 1998

                                                                                                                                                 2000                               2000                                 2000

                                                                                                                                                 2002                               2002                                 2002

                                                                                                                                                 2004                               2004                                 2004

                                                                                                                                                 2006                               2006                                 2006

                                                                                                                                                 2008                               2008                                 2008

                                                                                                                                                 2010                               2010                                 2010

                                                                                                                                                 2012                               2012                                 2012

                                                                                                                                                 2014                               2014                                 2014
                                         Figure 3. Total Return Index Individual Currencies


                                                                                                                                                 2016                               2016                                 2016




                                                                                                                                                    0     2       4         6   8      0         2         4       6        0     2       4         6   8
                                                                                                                                                 1994                               1994                                 1994

                                                                                                                                                 1996                               1996                                 1996

                                                                                                                                                 1998                               1998                                 1998

                                                                                                                                                 2000                               2000                                 2000

                                                                                                                                                 2002                               2002                                 2002

                                                                                                                                                 2004                               2004                                 2004

                                                                                                                                                 2006                               2006                                 2006

                                                                                                                                                 2008                               2008                                 2008

                                                                                                                                                 2010                               2010                                 2010

                                                                                                                                                 2012                               2012                                 2012

                                                                                                                                                 2014                               2014                                 2014

                                                                                                                                                 2016                               2016                                 2016
This figure displays a total return index for close-to-close (CTC), intraday (ID), and overnight (ON) time series starting with a value of one




                                                                                                                                                    0.5       1       1.5       2      0    1        2         3   4        0   0.5   1       1.5   2   2.5
                                                                                                                                                 1994                               1994                                 1994

                                                                                                                                                 1996                               1996                                 1996

                                                                                                                                                 1998                               1998                                 1998
                                                                                                                                                                      CTC
                                                                                                                                                 2000                 ID            2000                                 2000
                                                                                                                                                                      ON
                                                                                                                                                 2002                               2002                                 2002

                                                                                                                                                 2004                               2004                                 2004

                                                                                                                                                 2006                               2006                                 2006

                                                                                                                                                 2008                               2008                                 2008

                                                                                                                                                 2010                               2010                                 2010

                                                                                                                                                 2012                               2012                                 2012

                                                                                                                                                 2014                               2014                                 2014

                                                                                                                                                 2016                               2016                                 2016
in 1994. The sample period is January 1994 to December 2017.
         2



         1



         0



        -1



        -2



        -3



50      -4



        -5



        -6


                                                                                                                                              HML
        -7                                                                                                                                    P3
                                                                                                                                              P1


             17   18   19   20   21   22    23    0     1    2     3     4     5    6     7     8    9     10    11    12   13    14    15    16




                                         Figure 4. Carry Trade: Cumulative Spot Return Component
     This figure displays the average annualized return from the high-minus-low (HML, black line) spot return component of a conventional carry
     trade strategy, from portfolio 1 (low interest rate currencies, green line) and from portfolio 3 (high interest rate currencies, blue line) over
     the course of a trading day. The x-axis refers to trading hours measured in Eastern Standard Time (EST). The sample period is January
     1994 to December 2017.
                                3




                                2




                                1




      Ann. avg. return (in %)
                                0




                                -1



51
                                -2




                                                                                                                                          Dollar Carry
                                -3
                                                                                                                                          AFD > 0
                                                                                                                                          AFD 0

                                     17   18   19   20   21   22   23   0   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10   11   12   13   14   15     16




                                     Figure 5. Dollar Carry Trade: Cumulative Spot Return Component
     This figure displays the average annualized return of the spot return component from a conventional dollar carry strategy (black line), from
     a portfolio where investors sell foreign currencies (AF D ≤ 0, green line), and from a portfolio that buys foreign currencies (AF D > 0, blue
     line) over the course of a trading day. The x-axis refers to trading hours measured at Eastern Standard Time (EST). The sample period is
     January 1994 to December 2017.
      0.06
                                                       0.06                                            0.06
      0.05                                             0.05                                            0.05

      0.04                                             0.04                                            0.04

                                                       0.03                                            0.03
      0.03
                                                       0.02                                            0.02
             17
             18
             19
             20
             21
             22
             23
              0
              1
              2
              3                                               17
                                                              18
                                                              19
                                                              20
                                                              21
                                                              22
                                                              23
                                                               0
                                                               1
                                                               2
                                                               3                                              17
                                                                                                              18
                                                                                                              19
                                                                                                              20
                                                                                                              21
                                                                                                              22
                                                                                                              23
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                               3
              4
              5
              6
              7
              8
              9
             10
             11
             12
             13
             14                                                4
                                                               5
                                                               6
                                                               7
                                                               8
                                                               9
                                                              10
                                                              11
                                                              12
                                                              13
                                                              14                                               4
                                                                                                               5
                                                                                                               6
                                                                                                               7
                                                                                                               8
                                                                                                               9
                                                                                                              10
                                                                                                              11
                                                                                                              12
                                                                                                              13
                                                                                                              14
             15
             16                                               15
                                                              16                                              15
                                                                                                              16



                                                       0.06
      0.07
                                                                                                       0.06
      0.06                                             0.05
                                                                                                       0.05
      0.05                                             0.04
                                                                                                       0.04
      0.04                                             0.03
                                                                                                       0.03
52    0.03
             17
             18
                                                       0.02
                                                              17
                                                              18                                              17
                                                                                                              18
             19
             20
             21
             22
             23
              0
              1
              2
              3
              4
              5                                               19
                                                              20
                                                              21
                                                              22
                                                              23
                                                               0
                                                               1
                                                               2
                                                               3
                                                               4
                                                               5                                              19
                                                                                                              20
                                                                                                              21
                                                                                                              22
                                                                                                              23
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                               5
              6
              7
              8
              9
             10
             11
             12
             13
             14
             15
             16                                                6
                                                               7
                                                               8
                                                               9
                                                              10
                                                              11
                                                              12
                                                              13
                                                              14
                                                              15
                                                              16                                               6
                                                                                                               7
                                                                                                               8
                                                                                                               9
                                                                                                              10
                                                                                                              11
                                                                                                              12
                                                                                                              13
                                                                                                              14
                                                                                                              15
                                                                                                              16



      0.06                                             0.05

                                                                                                       0.05
      0.05                                             0.04
                                                                                                       0.04
      0.04
                                                       0.03
                                                                                                       0.03
      0.03
                                                       0.02                                            0.02
      0.02
             17
             18
             19
             20
             21
             22
             23
              0
              1
              2
              3                                               17
                                                              18
                                                              19
                                                              20
                                                              21
                                                              22
                                                              23
                                                               0
                                                               1
                                                               2
                                                               3                                              17
                                                                                                              18
                                                                                                              19
                                                                                                              20
                                                                                                              21
                                                                                                              22
                                                                                                              23
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                               3
              4
              5
              6
              7
              8
              9
             10
             11
             12
             13
             14                                                4
                                                               5
                                                               6
                                                               7
                                                               8
                                                               9
                                                              10
                                                              11
                                                              12
                                                              13
                                                              14                                               4
                                                                                                               5
                                                                                                               6
                                                                                                               7
                                                                                                               8
                                                                                                               9
                                                                                                              10
                                                                                                              11
                                                                                                              12
                                                                                                              13
                                                                                                              14
             15
             16                                               15
                                                              16                                              15
                                                                                                              16




                                    Figure 6. Intraday Volatility: Average     PTAbsolute Percentage Change
     This figure displays the average absolute percentage change |∆s̄i | = 1/T i=1 |∆si | as a measure of intraday volatility, where ∆si refers to
     the 5-min return at time i, and T refers to the total number of days in the sample. The grey-shaded area marks main trading hours in New
     York (8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.). Hours (x-axis) refer to Eastern Standard Time.
                                                        1.2
       1.2                                                                                                1.2
                                                        1.1
       1.1                                                                                                1.1

                                                          1                                                1
        1
                                                                                                          0.9
       0.9                                              0.9
                                                                                                          0.8
             17
             18
             19
             20
             21
             22
             23
              0
              1
              2
              3                                               17
                                                              18
                                                              19
                                                              20
                                                              21
                                                              22
                                                              23
                                                               0
                                                               1
                                                               2
                                                               3                                                17
                                                                                                                18
                                                                                                                19
                                                                                                                20
                                                                                                                21
                                                                                                                22
                                                                                                                23
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                 3
              4
              5
              6
              7
              8
              9
             10
             11
             12
             13
             14                                                4
                                                               5
                                                               6
                                                               7
                                                               8
                                                               9
                                                              10
                                                              11
                                                              12
                                                              13
                                                              14                                                 4
                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                                 7
                                                                                                                 8
                                                                                                                 9
                                                                                                                10
                                                                                                                11
                                                                                                                12
                                                                                                                13
                                                                                                                14
             15
             16                                               15
                                                              16                                                15
                                                                                                                16



       1.3                                              1.2
                                                                                                          1.2
       1.2
                                                        1.1                                               1.1
       1.1
                                                          1                                                1
        1

       0.9                                              0.9                                               0.9

       0.8
             17
             18
             19
             20
             21
             22
             23
              0
              1
              2
              3                                               17
                                                              18
                                                              19
                                                              20
                                                              21
                                                              22
                                                              23
                                                               0
                                                               1
                                                               2
                                                               3                                                17
                                                                                                                18
                                                                                                                19
                                                                                                                20
                                                                                                                21
                                                                                                                22
                                                                                                                23
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                 3
              4
              5
              6
              7
              8
              9
             10
             11
             12
             13
             14                                                4
                                                               5
                                                               6
                                                               7
                                                               8
                                                               9
                                                              10
                                                              11
                                                              12
                                                              13
                                                              14                                                 4
                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                                 7
                                                                                                                 8
                                                                                                                 9
                                                                                                                10
                                                                                                                11
                                                                                                                12
                                                                                                                13
                                                                                                                14
             15
             16                                               15
                                                              16                                                15
                                                                                                                16


       1.2                                              1.2
53
                                                                                                          1.1
       1.1                                              1.1


                                                          1                                                1
        1

                                                        0.9                                               0.9
       0.9
             17
             18
             19
             20
             21
             22
             23
              0
              1
              2
              3                                               17
                                                              18
                                                              19
                                                              20
                                                              21
                                                              22
                                                              23
                                                               0
                                                               1
                                                               2
                                                               3                                                17
                                                                                                                18
                                                                                                                19
                                                                                                                20
                                                                                                                21
                                                                                                                22
                                                                                                                23
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                 3
              4
              5
              6
              7
              8
              9
             10
             11
             12
             13
             14                                                4
                                                               5
                                                               6
                                                               7
                                                               8
                                                               9
                                                              10
                                                              11
                                                              12
                                                              13
                                                              14                                                 4
                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                                 7
                                                                                                                 8
                                                                                                                 9
                                                                                                                10
                                                                                                                11
                                                                                                                12
                                                                                                                13
                                                                                                                14
             15
             16                                               15
                                                              16                                                15
                                                                                                                16




                                                           Figure 7. Average Bid-Ask Spread
     This figure displays the relative average bid-ask spread at the 5-min frequency. The bid-ask spread is constructed as (askt − bidt )/midt ,
     where askt , bidt , and midt refer to the ask, bid, and mid-price, respectively. Each bid-ask spread is normalized by the average bid-ask spread
     during the associated day. The grey shaded area marks main trading hours in New York (8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. EST).
        2                                               2                                                2


       1.5                                             1.5                                             1.5


        1                                               1                                                1


       0.5                                             0.5                                             0.5


        0    17
             18
             19
             20
             21
             22
             23
             24
             01
             02                                         0    17
                                                             18
                                                             19
                                                             20
                                                             21
                                                             22
                                                             23
                                                             24
                                                             01
                                                             02                                          0   17
                                                                                                             18
                                                                                                             19
                                                                                                             20
                                                                                                             21
                                                                                                             22
                                                                                                             23
                                                                                                             24
                                                                                                             01
                                                                                                             02
             03
             04
             05
             06
             07
             08
             09
             10
             11
             12
             13
             14                                              03
                                                             04
                                                             05
                                                             06
                                                             07
                                                             08
                                                             09
                                                             10
                                                             11
                                                             12
                                                             13
                                                             14                                              03
                                                                                                             04
                                                                                                             05
                                                                                                             06
                                                                                                             07
                                                                                                             08
                                                                                                             09
                                                                                                             10
                                                                                                             11
                                                                                                             12
                                                                                                             13
                                                                                                             14
             15
             16
             17                                              15
                                                             16
                                                             17                                              15
                                                                                                             16
                                                                                                             17


        2                                               2                                                2


       1.5                                             1.5                                             1.5


        1                                               1                                                1


       0.5                                             0.5                                             0.5


        0    17
             18
             19
             20
             21
             22
             23
             24
             01
             02                                         0    17
                                                             18
                                                             19
                                                             20
                                                             21
                                                             22
                                                             23
                                                             24
                                                             01
                                                             02                                          0   17
                                                                                                             18
                                                                                                             19
                                                                                                             20
                                                                                                             21
                                                                                                             22
                                                                                                             23
                                                                                                             24
                                                                                                             01
                                                                                                             02
             03
             04
             05
             06
             07
             08
             09
             10
             11
             12
             13
             14                                              03
                                                             04
                                                             05
                                                             06
                                                             07
                                                             08
                                                             09
                                                             10
                                                             11
                                                             12
                                                             13
                                                             14                                              03
                                                                                                             04
                                                                                                             05
                                                                                                             06
                                                                                                             07
                                                                                                             08
                                                                                                             09
                                                                                                             10
                                                                                                             11
                                                                                                             12
                                                                                                             13
                                                                                                             14
             15
             16
             17                                              15
                                                             16
                                                             17                                              15
                                                                                                             16
                                                                                                             17


        2                                               2                                                2
54                                                                                                                                     -   s>0
       1.5                                             1.5                                             1.5                             -   s<0

        1                                               1                                                1


       0.5                                             0.5                                             0.5


        0    17
             18
             19
             20
             21
             22
             23
             24
             01
             02                                         0    17
                                                             18
                                                             19
                                                             20
                                                             21
                                                             22
                                                             23
                                                             24
                                                             01
                                                             02                                          0   17
                                                                                                             18
                                                                                                             19
                                                                                                             20
                                                                                                             21
                                                                                                             22
                                                                                                             23
                                                                                                             24
                                                                                                             01
                                                                                                             02
             03
             04
             05
             06
             07
             08
             09
             10
             11
             12
             13
             14                                              03
                                                             04
                                                             05
                                                             06
                                                             07
                                                             08
                                                             09
                                                             10
                                                             11
                                                             12
                                                             13
                                                             14                                              03
                                                                                                             04
                                                                                                             05
                                                                                                             06
                                                                                                             07
                                                                                                             08
                                                                                                             09
                                                                                                             10
                                                                                                             11
                                                                                                             12
                                                                                                             13
                                                                                                             14
             15
             16
             17                                              15
                                                             16
                                                             17                                              15
                                                                                                             16
                                                                                                             17




                                                           Figure 8. Intraday Crash Risk
     This figure displays the relative number of jumps that occur during each 5-minute interval across the entire trading day. Jumps are detected
     using the Lee and Mykland (2008) jump test statistic, where intraweek periodicity is taken into account following the procedure in Boudt,
     Croux, and Laurent (2011). The level of significance for the jump statistic is 5%. The blue bars (−∆st > 0) denote positive jumps
     (appreciation of the foreign currency), while the yellow bars (−∆st < 0) refer to negative jumps (depreciation of the foreign currency). The
     x-axis refers to daily trading hours, measured in Eastern Standard Time (EST). They y-axis measures the relative number of jumps (in %)
     during each 5-minute interval.
                                        References

Akram, Q. F., D. Rime, and L. Sarno (2008): “Arbitrage in the Foreign Exchange Market:
  Turning on the Microscope,” Journal of International Economics, 76(2), 237–253.

Andersen, T. G., T. Bollerslev, F. X. Diebold, and C. Vega (2003): “Micro Effects of
  Macro Announcements: Real-Time Price Discovery in Foreign Exchange,” American Economic
  Review, 93(1), 38–62.

BIS (2016): “Triennial Central Bank Survey–Foreign exchange and OTC derivatives markets in
  2016,” Discussion paper, Bank for International Settlements.

Bogousslavsky, V. (2018): “The Cross-Section of Intraday and Overnight Returns,” Working
  paper.

Boudt, K., C. Croux, and S. Laurent (2011): “Robust estimation of intraweek periodicity
  in volatility and jump detection,” Journal of Empirical Finance, 18(2), 353 – 367.

Breedon, F., and A. Ranaldo (2013): “Intraday Patterns in FX Returns and Order Flow,”
  Journal of Money, Credit and Banking, 45(5), 953–965.

Brunnermeier, M., S. Nagel, and L. H. Pedersen (2009): “Carry Trades and Currency
  Crashes,” NBER Macroeconomics Annual 2008, 23, 313–347.

Chaboud, A. P., and J. H. Wright (2005): “Uncovered interest parity: it works, but not for
  long,” Journal of International Economics, 66(2), 349 – 362.

Cliff, M., M. Cooper, and H. Gulen (2008): “Return Differences between Trading and
  Non-trading Hours: Like Night and Day,” Working paper.

Cornett, M. M., T. V. Schwarz, and A. C. Szakmary (1995): “Seasonalities and intraday
  return patterns in the foreign currency futures market,” Journal of Banking and Finance, 19(5),
  843–869.

Della Corte, P., R. Kosowski, and T. Wang (2015): “Market Closure and Short-Term
  Reversals,” .

                                               55
Della Corte, P., T. Ramadorai, and L. Sarno (2016): “Volatility risk premia and exchange
  rate predictability,” Journal of Financial Economics, 120(1), 21–40.

Engel, C. (1996): “The Forward Discount Anomaly and the Risk Premium: A Survey of Recent
  Evidence,” Journal of Empirical Finance, 3(2), 123–192.

Fama, E. F. (1984): “Forward and Spot Exchange Rates,” Journal of Monetary Economics, 14,
  319–338.

Fourel, V., D. Rime, L. Sarno, M. Schmeling, and A. Verdelhan (2018): “Common
  Factors, Order Flows, and Exchange Rate Dynamics,” .

Gargano, A., S. J. Riddiough, and L. Sarno (2017): “The Value of Volume in Foreign
  Exchange,” Working Paper.

Gilmore, S., and F. Hayashi (2011): “Emerging Market Currency Excess Returns.,” American
  Economic Journal: Macroeconomics, 3(4), 85 – 111.

Hendershott, T., D. Livdan, and D. Rösch (2018): “Asset Pricing: A Tale of Night and
  Day,” .

Jiang, Z. (2017):.

Karnaukh, N., A. Ranaldo, and P. Söderlind (2015): “Understanding FX Liquidity,” The
  Review of Financial Studies, 28(11), 3073–3108.

Kelly, M. A., and S. P. Clark (2011): “Returns in trading versus non-trading hours: The
  difference is day and night,” Journal of Asset Management, 12(2), 132–145.

Lee, S. S., and P. A. Mykland (2008): “Jumps in Financial Markets: A New Nonparametric
  Test and Jump Dynamics,” The Review of Financial Studies, 21(6), 2535–2563.

Lee, S. S., and M. Wang (2016): “Tales of Tails: Jumps in Currency Markets,” .

            (2017): “The Impact of Jumps on Carry Trade Returns,” forthcoming, Journal of Fi-
  nancial Economics.



                                               56
Lou, D., C. Polk, and S. Skouras (2017): “A Tug of War: Overnight Versus Intraday
  Expected Returns,” Working Paper, London School of Economics.

Lustig, H., N. Roussanov, and A. Verdelhan (2011): “Common Risk Factors in Currency
  Markets,” Review of Financial Studies, 24(11), 3731–3777.

         (2014): “Countercylical Currency Risk Premia,” Journal of Financial Economics, 111,
  527–553.

Lustig, H., and A. Verdelhan (2007): “The Cross-Section of Foreign Currency Risk Premia
  and Consumption Growth Risk,” American Economic Review, 97, 89–117.

Lyons, R. K., and A. K. Rose (1995): “Explaining Forward Exchange Bias...Intraday,” The
  Journal of Finance, 50(4), 1321–1329.

Mancini, L., A. Ranaldo, and J. Wrampelmeyer (2013): “Liquidity in the Foreign Ex-
  change Market: Measurement, Commonality, and Risk Premiums,” Journal of Finance, 68,
  1805–1841.

Menkhoff, L., L. Sarno, M. Schmeling, and A. Schrimpf (2012): “Currency Momentum
  Strategies,” Journal of Financial Economics, 106, 660–684.

Mueller, P., A. Tahbaz-Salehi, and A. Vedolin (2017): “Exchange Rates and Monetary
  Policy Uncertainty,” Journal of Finance, 72, 1213–1252.

Ranaldo, A. (2009): “Segmentation and time-of-day patterns in foreign exchange markets,”
  Journal of Banking and Finance, 33, 2199–2206.

Rosenberg, J. V., and L. G. Traub (2009): “Price Discovery in the Foreign Currency Futures
  and Spot,” The Journal of Derivatives, 17(2), 7–25.

Thomson Reuters (2017): “WM/Reuters FX Benchmarks,” Technical Report, Thomson
  Reuters.

Verdelhan, A. (2018): “The Share of Systematic Variation in Bilateral Exchange Rates,” The
  Journal of Finance, 73(1), 375–418.


                                              57
       FX Premia Around The Clock
Ingomar Krohn, Philippe Mueller and Paul Whelan
      Appendix A: Robustness Tests




                      58
      0                                                   0                                                   0



     -2                                                  -2                                                  -2



     -4                                                  -4                                                  -4



     -6   17
          18
          19
          20
          21                                             -6   17
                                                              18
                                                              19
                                                              20
                                                              21                                             -6   17
                                                                                                                  18
                                                                                                                  19
                                                                                                                  20
                                                                                                                  21
          22
          23
           0
           1
           2
           3
           4
           5
           6
           7
           8
           9                                                  22
                                                              23
                                                               0
                                                               1
                                                               2
                                                               3
                                                               4
                                                               5
                                                               6
                                                               7
                                                               8
                                                               9                                                  22
                                                                                                                  23
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                                                   7
                                                                                                                   8
                                                                                                                   9
          10
          11
          12
          13
          14
          15
          16
          17                                                  10
                                                              11
                                                              12
                                                              13
                                                              14
                                                              15
                                                              16
                                                              17                                                  10
                                                                                                                  11
                                                                                                                  12
                                                                                                                  13
                                                                                                                  14
                                                                                                                  15
                                                                                                                  16
                                                                                                                  17


      0                                                   0                                                   0



     -2                                                  -2                                                  -2



     -4                                                  -4                                                  -4



     -6   17
          18
          19
          20
          21                                             -6   17
                                                              18
                                                              19
                                                              20
                                                              21                                             -6   17
                                                                                                                  18
                                                                                                                  19
                                                                                                                  20
                                                                                                                  21
          22
          23
           0
           1
           2
           3
           4
           5
           6
           7
           8
           9                                                  22
                                                              23
                                                               0
                                                               1
                                                               2
                                                               3
                                                               4
                                                               5
                                                               6
                                                               7
                                                               8
                                                               9                                                  22
                                                                                                                  23
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                                                   7
                                                                                                                   8
                                                                                                                   9
          10
          11
          12
          13
          14
          15
          16
          17                                                  10
                                                              11
                                                              12
                                                              13
                                                              14
                                                              15
                                                              16
                                                              17                                                  10
                                                                                                                  11
                                                                                                                  12
                                                                                                                  13
                                                                                                                  14
                                                                                                                  15
                                                                                                                  16
                                                                                                                  17


59    0                                                   0                                                   0

                                                                                                                                              All Curr
                                                                                                                                              Excl. Curr
     -2                                                  -2                                                  -2



     -4                                                  -4                                                  -4



     -6   17
          18
          19
          20
          21                                             -6   17
                                                              18
                                                              19
                                                              20
                                                              21                                             -6   17
                                                                                                                  18
                                                                                                                  19
                                                                                                                  20
                                                                                                                  21
          22
          23
           0
           1
           2
           3
           4
           5
           6
           7
           8
           9                                                  22
                                                              23
                                                               0
                                                               1
                                                               2
                                                               3
                                                               4
                                                               5
                                                               6
                                                               7
                                                               8
                                                               9                                                  22
                                                                                                                  23
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                                                   7
                                                                                                                   8
                                                                                                                   9
          10
          11
          12
          13
          14
          15
          16
          17                                                  10
                                                              11
                                                              12
                                                              13
                                                              14
                                                              15
                                                              16
                                                              17                                                  10
                                                                                                                  11
                                                                                                                  12
                                                                                                                  13
                                                                                                                  14
                                                                                                                  15
                                                                                                                  16
                                                                                                                  17




                                        Figure 9. Dollar Portfolio: Alternative Currency Cross-Sections
     This figure displays cumulative average annualized 5-min log spot changes (−∆s) of different specifications of the unconditional dollar
     portfolio over the course of a trading day. The black line refers to the dollar portfolio based on all nine foreign currencies. The red line refers
     to a dollar portfolio for which one currency pair is excluded. The dollar portfolio refers to an investment where an US invest equally invests
     in a set of foreign currencies at the beginning of the sample in January 1994. The grey-shaded area marks the main trading hours in New
     York (8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. EST). Hours (x-axis) refer to Eastern Standard Time (EST). The sample period comprises all months between
     January 1994 to December 2017.
      5                                                 5                                                 5




      0                                                 0                                                 0




      -5                                                -5                                                -5




     -10                                               -10                                               -10
           17
           18
           19
           20
           21
           22
           23
            0
            1
            2
            3
            4                                                17
                                                             18
                                                             19
                                                             20
                                                             21
                                                             22
                                                             23
                                                              0
                                                              1
                                                              2
                                                              3
                                                              4                                                17
                                                                                                               18
                                                                                                               19
                                                                                                               20
                                                                                                               21
                                                                                                               22
                                                                                                               23
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                4
            5
            6
            7
            8
            9
           10
           11
           12
           13
           14
           15
           16                                                 5
                                                              6
                                                              7
                                                              8
                                                              9
                                                             10
                                                             11
                                                             12
                                                             13
                                                             14
                                                             15
                                                             16                                                 5
                                                                                                                6
                                                                                                                7
                                                                                                                8
                                                                                                                9
                                                                                                               10
                                                                                                               11
                                                                                                               12
                                                                                                               13
                                                                                                               14
                                                                                                               15
                                                                                                               16
           17                                                17                                                17




      5                                                 5
                                                                                    All Days
                                                                                    Excl. Weekday


      0                                                 0
60

      -5                                                -5




     -10                                               -10
           17
           18
           19
           20
           21
           22
           23
            0
            1
            2
            3
            4                                                17
                                                             18
                                                             19
                                                             20
                                                             21
                                                             22
                                                             23
                                                              0
                                                              1
                                                              2
                                                              3
                                                              4
            5
            6
            7
            8
            9
           10
           11
           12
           13
           14
           15
           16                                                 5
                                                              6
                                                              7
                                                              8
                                                              9
                                                             10
                                                             11
                                                             12
                                                             13
                                                             14
                                                             15
                                                             16
           17                                                17




                                          Figure 10. Dollar Portfolio: Decomposition By Weekdays
     This figure displays cumulative average annualized 5-min log spot changes (−∆s) of the unconditional dollar portfolio over the course of
     all trading days in the week. The black line refers to the dollar portfolio constructed from returns on all days, while the red line refers to
     the dollar portfolio based on returns on either Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday. The trading day on Friday comprises all
     returns on Fridays until 5:00 p.m. and all returns on Sundays from 5:00 p.m. until the end of the day. The dollar portfolio refers to an
     investment where an investor equally invests her capital into a set of foreign currencies at the beginning of the sample in January 1994. The
     grey-shaded area marks the main trading hours in New York (8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. EST). Hours (x-axis) refer to Eastern Standard Time
     (EST). The sample period comprises all months between January 1994 to December 2017.
61
      0                                                                                                   2
                                                        0
                                                                                                          0
      -5
                                                                                                          -2
                                                        -5
                                                                                                          -4
     -10
                                                       -10                                                -6
           17
           18
           19
           20
           21
           22
           23
            0
            1
            2
            3
            4                                                17
                                                             18
                                                             19
                                                             20
                                                             21
                                                             22
                                                             23
                                                              0
                                                              1
                                                              2
                                                              3
                                                              4                                                17
                                                                                                               18
                                                                                                               19
                                                                                                               20
                                                                                                               21
                                                                                                               22
                                                                                                               23
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                4
            5
            6
            7
            8
            9
           10
           11
           12
           13
           14
           15
           16                                                 5
                                                              6
                                                              7
                                                              8
                                                              9
                                                             10
                                                             11
                                                             12
                                                             13
                                                             14
                                                             15
                                                             16                                                 5
                                                                                                                6
                                                                                                                7
                                                                                                                8
                                                                                                                9
                                                                                                               10
                                                                                                               11
                                                                                                               12
                                                                                                               13
                                                                                                               14
                                                                                                               15
                                                                                                               16
           17                                                17                                                17


                                                        0                                                 4
                                                        -2                                                2
      5
                                                        -4                                                0
      0                                                 -6                                                -2
                                                        -8                                                -4
      -5   17
           18
           19
           20
           21
           22                                                17
                                                             18
                                                             19
                                                             20
                                                             21
                                                             22                                                17
                                                                                                               18
                                                                                                               19
                                                                                                               20
                                                                                                               21
                                                                                                               22
           23
            0
            1
            2
            3
            4
            5
            6
            7
            8
            9
           10                                                23
                                                              0
                                                              1
                                                              2
                                                              3
                                                              4
                                                              5
                                                              6
                                                              7
                                                              8
                                                              9
                                                             10                                                23
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                5
                                                                                                                6
                                                                                                                7
                                                                                                                8
                                                                                                                9
                                                                                                               10
           11
           12
           13
           14
           15
           16
           17                                                11
                                                             12
                                                             13
                                                             14
                                                             15
                                                             16
                                                             17                                                11
                                                                                                               12
                                                                                                               13
                                                                                                               14
                                                                                                               15
                                                                                                               16
                                                                                                               17


      0                                                 0
                                                                                                          5
      -2
                                                        -5                                                0
      -4
      -6
                                                       -10                                                -5
      -8
62
           17
           18
           19
           20
           21
           22
           23
            0
            1
            2
            3
            4                                                17
                                                             18
                                                             19
                                                             20
                                                             21
                                                             22
                                                             23
                                                              0
                                                              1
                                                              2
                                                              3
                                                              4                                                17
                                                                                                               18
                                                                                                               19
                                                                                                               20
                                                                                                               21
                                                                                                               22
                                                                                                               23
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                4
            5
            6
            7
            8
            9
           10
           11
           12
           13
           14
           15
           16                                                 5
                                                              6
                                                              7
                                                              8
                                                              9
                                                             10
                                                             11
                                                             12
                                                             13
                                                             14
                                                             15
                                                             16                                                 5
                                                                                                                6
                                                                                                                7
                                                                                                                8
                                                                                                                9
                                                                                                               10
                                                                                                               11
                                                                                                               12
                                                                                                               13
                                                                                                               14
                                                                                                               15
                                                                                                               16
           17                                                17                                                17



                                                        0
      2
                                                                                                          5
      0                                                 -5
      -2                                                          All
                                                                                                          0
                                                                  Excl.
      -4                                               -10
           17
           18
           19
           20
           21
           22                                                17
                                                             18
                                                             19
                                                             20
                                                             21
                                                             22                                           -5   17
                                                                                                               18
                                                                                                               19
                                                                                                               20
                                                                                                               21
                                                                                                               22
           23
            0
            1
            2
            3
            4
            5
            6
            7
            8
            9
           10                                                23
                                                              0
                                                              1
                                                              2
                                                              3
                                                              4
                                                              5
                                                              6
                                                              7
                                                              8
                                                              9
                                                             10                                                23
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                5
                                                                                                                6
                                                                                                                7
                                                                                                                8
                                                                                                                9
                                                                                                               10
           11
           12
           13
           14
           15
           16
           17                                                11
                                                             12
                                                             13
                                                             14
                                                             15
                                                             16
                                                             17                                                11
                                                                                                               12
                                                                                                               13
                                                                                                               14
                                                                                                               15
                                                                                                               16
                                                                                                               17




                                              Figure 11. Dollar Portfolio: Decomposition By Months
     This figure displays cumulative average annualized 5-min log spot changes (−∆s) of the unconditional dollar portfolio over the course of a
     trading day in every months of the year. The black line refers to the dollar portfolio constructed from returns across all months, while the
     red line refers to the dollar portfolio based on returns in one specific calendar month. The dollar portfolio refers to an investment where an
     investor equally invests her capital into a set of foreign currencies at the beginning of the sample in January 1994. The grey-shaded area
     marks the main trading hours in New York (8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. EST). Hours (x-axis) refer to Eastern Standard Time (EST). The sample
     period comprises all months between January 1994 to December 2017.
                               5                                                 0
                                                        0
      5                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                          5
                                                                                -5                                                -2
                               0                        -2
      0                                                                                                                           -4
                                                                               -10                        0
                                                        -4                                                                        -6
      -5                       -5
           17
           18
           19                       17
                                    18
                                    19                       17
                                                             18
                                                             19                      17
                                                                                     18
                                                                                     19                  -5   17
                                                                                                              18
                                                                                                              19                  -8   17
                                                                                                                                       18
                                                                                                                                       19
           20
           21
           22
           23
            0
            1                       20
                                    21
                                    22
                                    23
                                     0
                                     1                       20
                                                             21
                                                             22
                                                             23
                                                              0
                                                              1                      20
                                                                                     21
                                                                                     22
                                                                                     23
                                                                                      0
                                                                                      1                       20
                                                                                                              21
                                                                                                              22
                                                                                                              23
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               1                       20
                                                                                                                                       21
                                                                                                                                       22
                                                                                                                                       23
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        1
            2
            3
            4
            5                        2
                                     3
                                     4
                                     5                        2
                                                              3
                                                              4
                                                              5                       2
                                                                                      3
                                                                                      4
                                                                                      5                        2
                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                               5                        2
                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                                        5


                               0                                                                          5                       0
      0                                                                         15
                                                       10
                               -5                                               10                                                -5
                                                        5                                                 0
     -10                      -10                                                5
                                                        0                        0                       -5                      -10
                              -15
     -20                                                -5                      -5
           17
           18
           19
           20
           21
           22                       17
                                    18
                                    19
                                    20
                                    21
                                    22                       17
                                                             18
                                                             19
                                                             20
                                                             21
                                                             22                      17
                                                                                     18
                                                                                     19
                                                                                     20
                                                                                     21
                                                                                     22                       17
                                                                                                              18
                                                                                                              19
                                                                                                              20
                                                                                                              21
                                                                                                              22                       17
                                                                                                                                       18
                                                                                                                                       19
                                                                                                                                       20
                                                                                                                                       21
                                                                                                                                       22
           23
            0
            1
            2
            3
            4                       23
                                     0
                                     1
                                     2
                                     3
                                     4                       23
                                                              0
                                                              1
                                                              2
                                                              3
                                                              4                      23
                                                                                      0
                                                                                      1
                                                                                      2
                                                                                      3
                                                                                      4                       23
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                               4                       23
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                        4
            5                        5                        5                       5                        5                        5



                                                        0                       10                                                0
                                                                                                          5
      5                                                                          5
                               5
                                                       -10                                                0
                                                                                 0                                                -5
      0                        0
                                                       -20                                               -5
                                                                                -5
      -5                       -5                                                                                                -10
63
           17
           18
           19
           20
           21
           22                       17
                                    18
                                    19
                                    20
                                    21
                                    22                       17
                                                             18
                                                             19
                                                             20
                                                             21
                                                             22                      17
                                                                                     18
                                                                                     19
                                                                                     20
                                                                                     21
                                                                                     22                       17
                                                                                                              18
                                                                                                              19
                                                                                                              20
                                                                                                              21
                                                                                                              22                       17
                                                                                                                                       18
                                                                                                                                       19
                                                                                                                                       20
                                                                                                                                       21
                                                                                                                                       22
           23
            0
            1
            2
            3
            4                       23
                                     0
                                     1
                                     2
                                     3
                                     4                       23
                                                              0
                                                              1
                                                              2
                                                              3
                                                              4                      23
                                                                                      0
                                                                                      1
                                                                                      2
                                                                                      3
                                                                                      4                       23
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                               4                       23
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                        4
            5                        5                        5                       5                        5                        5


      2                        0                        0                        0                        0
      0                                                                                                                           5
                                                        -5                      -5
                               -5
      -2                                                                                                 -5
                                                                               -10                                  All years     0
                                                       -10
      -4                      -10                                                                                   One Year
                                                                               -15                      -10
           17                       17                 -15   17                      17                       17                  -5   17
           18
           19
           20
           21
           22
           23                       18
                                    19
                                    20
                                    21
                                    22
                                    23                       18
                                                             19
                                                             20
                                                             21
                                                             22
                                                             23                      18
                                                                                     19
                                                                                     20
                                                                                     21
                                                                                     22
                                                                                     23                       18
                                                                                                              19
                                                                                                              20
                                                                                                              21
                                                                                                              22
                                                                                                              23                       18
                                                                                                                                       19
                                                                                                                                       20
                                                                                                                                       21
                                                                                                                                       22
                                                                                                                                       23
            0
            1
            2
            3
            4
            5                        0
                                     1
                                     2
                                     3
                                     4
                                     5                        0
                                                              1
                                                              2
                                                              3
                                                              4
                                                              5                       0
                                                                                      1
                                                                                      2
                                                                                      3
                                                                                      4
                                                                                      5                        0
                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                               5                        0
                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                                        5




                                                Figure 12. Dollar Portfolio: Decomposition By Years
     This figure displays cumulative average annualized 5-min log spot changes (−∆s) of the unconditional dollar portfolio over the course of a
     trading day for every year in our sample. The black line refers to the dollar portfolio constructed from returns across all years, while the red
     line refers to the dollar portfolio based on returns in one specific calendar year. The dollar portfolio refers to an investment where an investor
     equally invests her capital into a set of foreign currencies at the beginning of the sample in January 1994. The grey-shaded area marks the
     main trading hours in New York (8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. EST). Hours (x-axis) refer to Eastern Standard Time (EST). The sample period
     comprises all months between January 1994 to December 2017.
       0

                                                                                                                                         HKD port
                                                                                                                                         USD port
     -0.5



      -1



     -1.5



      -2



     -2.5



      -3



     -3.5
64
      -4



     -4.5



      -5



     -5.5
            17   18   19   20   21   22   23   0    1     2     3     4    5     6     7    8     9     10   11    12    13    14   15     16       17




                                            Figure 13. Unconditional Hong Kong Dollar Portfolio
     This figure displays the development of the unconditional U.S. dollar portfolio (black line) and Hong Kong dollar (blue line) portfolio over
     the course of the trading day. The grey area marks the main trading hours in New York (8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.) An increase of the portfolio
     implies that foreign currencies appreciate against the U.S. dollar and Hong Kong dollar. Trading hours (x-axis) refer to Eastern Standard
     Time (EST). The sample period comprises all months between January 1994 to December 2017.
