Manuscript version: Author’s Accepted Manuscript
The version presented in WRAP is the author’s accepted manuscript and may differ from the
published version or Version of Record.

Persistent WRAP URL:
http://wrap.warwick.ac.uk/177333

How to cite:
Please refer to published version for the most recent bibliographic citation information.
If a published version is known of, the repository item page linked to above, will contain
details on accessing it.

Copyright and reuse:
The Warwick Research Archive Portal (WRAP) makes this work by researchers of the
University of Warwick available open access under the following conditions.

Copyright © and all moral rights to the version of the paper presented here belong to the
individual author(s) and/or other copyright owners. To the extent reasonable and
practicable the material made available in WRAP has been checked for eligibility before
being made available.

Copies of full items can be used for personal research or study, educational, or not-for-profit
purposes without prior permission or charge. Provided that the authors, title and full
bibliographic details are credited, a hyperlink and/or URL is given for the original metadata
page and the content is not changed in any way.

Publisher’s statement:
Please refer to the repository item page, publisher’s statement section, for further
information.

For more information, please contact the WRAP Team at: wrap@warwick.ac.uk.




                               warwick.ac.uk/lib-publications
            Foreign Exchange Fixings and
                 Returns Around the Clock
              Ingomar Krohn*                 Philippe Mueller                 Paul Whelan


                            Journal of Finance forthcoming


                                                    Abstract


       The U.S. dollar appreciates in the run-up to foreign exchange fixes and depreciates
       thereafter, tracing a W -shaped return pattern around the clock. Return reversals for
       the top nine traded currencies over a 21-year period are pervasive, highly statistically
       significant, and imply daily swings of more than one billion U.S. dollars based on spot
       volumes. Using natural experiments, we show the existence of a published reference
       rate determines the timing of intraday return reversals. We present evidence consistent
       with an inventory risk explanation whereby foreign exchange dealers intermediate an
       unconditional demand for U.S. dollars at the fixes.



Keywords: foreign-exchange, fixings, high-frequency returns, inventory management, in-
termediation.
This Version: January 2023.


     We are grateful for comments from Stefan Nagel (Editor), the associate editor and two anonymous referees. We
also thank Benjamin Anderegg, Daniel Andrei, Patrick Augustin, Nick Baltas, Guido Baltussen, Nina Boyarchenko,
Gino Cenedese, Alain Chaboud, Mike Chernov, Magnus Dahlquist, Pasquale Della Corte, Darrell Duffie, Peter
Feldhütter, Michael Fleming, Lukas Frei, Jean-Sébastien Fontaine, Thierry Foucault, Patrick Green, Farouk Jiv-
jav, Christian Julliard, Nina Karnaukh, Sven Klingler, David Lando, Dong Lou, Aytek Malkhozov, Paul Meggyesi,
Michael Melvin, Albert Menkveld, Carol Osler, Lasse Pedersen, Tarun Ramadorai, Angelo Ranaldo, Steven Rid-
diough, Dagfinn Rime, Elvira Sojli, Vania Stavrakeva, Gyuri Venter, Ganesh Viswanath Natraj, Tony Zhang, and
seminar and conference participants at various universities and financial institutions for helpful comments. The au-
thors gratefully acknowledge financial support from the Canadian Derivatives Institute. Ingomar Krohn gratefully
acknowledges financial support from the Economic and Social Research Council, grant no. 1500668. Philippe Mueller
gratefully acknowledges financial support from the Systemic Risk Centre at the LSE. Paul Whelan gratefully ac-
knowledges financial support from the Danish Council for Independent Research grant no. 9037-00105B. The views
expressed in this paper are solely those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the position of the Bank of
Canada. We have read The Journal of Finance disclosure policy and have no conflicts of interest to disclose.
   *
     Bank of Canada, 234 Wellington St. W, Ottawa, ON K1A 0G9, Canada, Email: IKrohn@bank-banque-canada.ca
   
     Warwick Business School, Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK, Email: Philippe.Mueller@wbs.ac.uk
     Copenhagen Business School, Solbjerg Pl. 3, 2000 Frederiksberg, DK, Email: pawh.fi@cbs.dk




                       Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
   The foreign exchange market trades continuously on a 24-hour, decentralized basis across
the globe in different time zones. Every day, benchmark rates are determined using specific
procedures and published at pre-set times. These currency fixes are well established and
widely followed but there exists surprisingly little insight on how they affect (intraday) price
formation. In this paper, we study high-frequency currency returns around the clock and
document a novel intraday return pattern: the U.S. dollar gradually appreciates against all
currencies ahead of the three major currency fixes in Tokyo, Frankfurt (the ECB fix) and
London, and reverts thereafter.
   To establish this fact, we compute intraday returns from January 1999 to December 2019
for the G9 currency pairs, which cover roughly 75% of daily spot turnover (see, e.g., BIS,
2019). Consider the dollar portfolio that invests in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar.
On average, this portfolio depreciates by approximately two basis points in the run up to
the Tokyo and European fixes and appreciates by the same magnitude during the post-fix
period. That is, during Asian or European trading hours, the U.S. dollar remains flat on
average but displays two V -shaped return reversals with turning points marked by the fixes
that take place at 9:55 Tokyo time, 14:15 Frankfurt time and 16:00 London time.
   The price patterns we detect are highly pervasive and, given the size of the spot market
alone, economically meaningful. Based on daily turnover from the 2019 BIS Triennial Survey,
we estimate that the patterns we detect imply swings exceeding one billion U.S. dollars per
day. In statistical terms, the average fluctuations in the dollar portfolio during the respective
windows are highly significant with t-statistics ranging between 4.5 and 11.7.
   Moreover, patterns for the dollar portfolio are robust across individual currency pairs with
a large degree of statistical confidence. All G9 currencies display V -shaped reversal patterns
around the Tokyo and European fixes, except for the Japanese yen, which depreciates after
the London fix.
   To study the persistence of fix reversals, we calculate returns to a strategy that goes
long the U.S. dollar before the fix and reverses the position thereafter. Ignoring transaction
costs, these reversal returns are consistently positive and large. Around the Tokyo fix, an
initial position of one U.S. dollar in 1999 grows to 12, 9, and 5 U.S. dollars by 2019 for then
yen, euro and dollar portfolio, respectively. Around the European fixes (going long the U.S.
dollar before the ECB fix and short the U.S. dollar after the London fix), the initial position


                                                 1

                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
grows to 27, 14, and 6 U.S. dollars for the euro, pound, and dollar portfolio, respectively.
   To show that the fixes are the salient turning points within the day, we calculate alterna-
tive reversal returns for both the Tokyo and European windows, and show that the returns
are indeed maximized exactly when the reversal points are aligned with the fixing times and
not when equity markets open or economic news is released.
   Providing additional evidence pinning down turning points within the day, we conduct
a series of natural experiments. We begin by exploiting the fact that Japan doesn’t follow
Daylight Savings Time (DST). This means that the time difference between New York and
Tokyo varies between 14 hours during winter and 13 hours when DST is observed from March
to November. Measured in Eastern Time (ET), the peak of the U.S. dollar around the Tokyo
fix shifts by exactly one hour when DST is observed. By contrast, there is no change in the
timing of the reversals around the European fixes.
   Next, as holidays are non-synchronous across countries, we have 304 Japanese holidays
in our sample where reference rates are not published for the Tokyo fix (see also Ito and
Yamada, 2017). Thus, if reversals are tied to the existence of a fix, they should not emerge
on Japanese holidays that are normal trading days in other countries. Indeed, we find no
significant return patterns around the Tokyo fix on these days, while the reversals around
the European fixes remain high and statistically significant.
   Conducting a third natural experiment, we extend our data set to investigate price pat-
terns starting in 1986, before the introduction of the London (1994) and the ECB (1999)
fixes. Return patterns look distinctly different before the introduction of the fixes and the
turning points we document only emerge once the published reference rates become recog-
nized as established benchmarks. This is also reflected in trading quantities over time and
we show that the fixes become increasingly relevant, consistent with theories of ‘liquidity
begets liquidity’ (see, e.g., Duffie, Dworczak, and Zhu, 2017). We estimate that during our
main sample period, between 30% and 40% of traded volume is executed during the three
hours leading up to the London fix and during the hour after.
   Taken together, non-synchronous holidays and intraday patterns in the pre-fix era demon-
strate the novelty of our contribution: when the fixes are not published (including when they
did not exist), reversals do not occur, but when they are published, we observe reversals.
   Moving beyond the empirical characteristics of fix return reversals, we point towards the


                                                2

                  Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
market microstructure literature for an economic explanation. Broadly speaking, this liter-
ature offers two explanations: (i) asymmetric information; and (ii) inventory management.
For asymmetric information alone to explain a systematic appreciation of the U.S. dollar we
would require that news to informed traders is systematically revealed before the fix and that
this information is positive for the U.S. dollar on average. However, we show that standard
information releases, such as an international cross-section of macroeconomic and monetary
policy announcements, do not explain fix reversals, suggesting that asymmetric information
alone is an implausible explanation.1 The second strand of the literature recognizes that in
supplying liquidity, financial intermediaries face inventory risk for which they demand a pre-
mium. The effects on prices following supply and demand shocks in such a setting are well
understood and known to be transient. That is, standard models of inventory management
indeed predict price reversals.2
    Using data from the Refinitiv FX Matching (RM) inter-dealer platform for the sample
2006 to 2019, we proceed to study an inventory management explanation. As RM is the
dominant platform for Commonwealth currencies, we focus on the Australian dollar and the
pound. Moreover, we follow existing literature and use order imbalances in the dealer-to-
dealer (D2D) market to proxy for aggregate order imbalances in the dealer-to-client (D2C)
market.
    First, we show that the unconditional return patterns correspond with unconditional
order imbalances in the dealer market towards an excess demand for U.S. dollars in the
hours before and at the fixes. For example, the median order imbalance tilted towards U.S.
dollar demand before the London fix on RM for both the Australian dollar and the pound
is around 20 million U.S. dollars. Pre-fix order imbalances are statistically significant and
economically large, translating to around 6% of volume traded ahead of the London fix.
    Second, we document that returns for providing immediacy are related to the size of the
order imbalance and to uncertainty as measured by volatility in the foreign exchange (FX)
market. Using double sorts on order imbalance and intraday FX volatility, we find that
return reversals are (i) not only in line with the direction but also monotonically increasing
in the conditional order imbalance; and (ii) larger during periods of high uncertainty. For
   1
     We investigate a number of alternative explanations and, for example, show that fix reversals are also not
explained by intraday volatility, price jumps or variation in market liquidity.
   2
     For a comprehensive review of the theoretical and empirical literature on price reversals see Duffie (2010).


                                                       3

                      Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
example, in states of high dollar demand, reversal returns go from 16bps to 30bps and from
22bps to 29bps for the Australian dollar and pound, respectively, as we move from low to
high volatility states.
   Third, we explore returns to liquidity provision. We consider a hypothetical scenario
with a dealer that understands there is an unconditional demand for U.S. dollars and builds
up U.S. dollar inventory acting as a liquidity provider. We also consider a trader who does
not have access to the dealer market, but trades to exploit the V -shaped return pattern
around the European fixes. We show that the unconditional return patterns cannot easily
be arbitraged in the client market as transaction cost adjusted returns are significantly neg-
ative. At the same time, returns to liquidity provision are positive and strongly statistically
significant, as is the difference between the liquidity demanding trade and the liquidity sup-
plying trade. Overall, our findings are consistent with the idea that clients are demanding
U.S. dollars at the fixes and dealers are gradually raising their prices when streaming quotes
to clients; thus, supplying U.S. dollars in exchange for a liquidity premium.
   In summary, we present evidence consistent with an inventory risk explanation and show
that there is an unconditional demand for U.S. dollars at the fixes. However, while an un-
conditional demand for U.S. dollars is consistent with an unconditional V -shaped reversal
pattern, our analysis is silent with regards to the origins of this imbalance. We speculate that
a predictable demand for U.S. dollars at the fix is related to the special role of the United
States as the world’s provider of safe assets and the dollar as the world’s reserve currency.


Related Literature: The intraday price patterns documented in this paper are related

to a well-established literature on intraday FX patterns starting with Wasserfallen (1989)
and Cornett, Schwarz, and Szakmary (1995); followed, more recently, by Ranaldo (2009)
and Breedon and Ranaldo (2013) who document that local currencies depreciate during
local working hours. With respect to these papers, our granular dissection allows us to
identify price reversals around major currency fixes that are not explained by working hours
patterns.
   Our paper is also related to a literature in market microstructure studying foreign ex-
change benchmarks. For the London fix, Melvin and Prins (2015) analyze hedging flows of
fund managers at month-end; Evans (2018) assesses price dynamics in tight windows around


                                                 4

                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
the fix; while Evans, O’Neill, Rime, and Saakvitne (2020) show differences in trading be-
havior across investor types. Furthermore, Ito and Yamada (2016) document a structural
demand for U.S. dollars at the Tokyo fix. Different from these papers, we show that U.S.
dollar demand systematically manifests itself at both the Tokyo and European fixes, leading
to a gradual appreciation and depreciation of the U.S. dollar, tracing out a W -shaped return
pattern around the clock.


                           I.    Foreign Exchange Benchmarks

A foreign exchange fix is a pre-set time of day when bids and offers are aggregated and a
reference price is published. Historically, the most popular fixes are the London, ECB, and
Tokyo fixes. Figure 1 depicts these fixes visually in Eastern Time (ET, the time in New
York) “around the clock.” The colored blocks in Figure 1 show the regular trading hours in
the futures markets of each location. The figure begins at 17:00 ET. which is the end of the
trading day in New York and roughly the beginning of the trading day in Australasia.3 The
first major currency fix that occurs is Tokyo at 9:55 local time, which is 20:55 ET (or 19:55
ET when daylight saving time (DST) is not in use in the United States). The red, green, and
yellow blocks overlap, meaning that as Japanese trading is closing, European markets are
opening. While the beginning of the trading day in New York (we assume 8:00 ET) happens
close to the ECB fix at 8:15 ET (14:15 local time), the timing is clearly not exactly aligned.
Moreover, and importantly, the ECB fix is also not aligned with the usual release time of
macro announcements at 8:30 ET. As we argue later, this distinction in timing is important
when considering intraday price movements in exchange rates. The final and most important
fix of the day is the London fix at 16:00 local time (or 11:00 ET).
    While all fixes have an impact on foreign exchange markets, they differ from each other
with respect to institutional characteristics, publication time of reference rates, and the
methodologies to compute fix rates.
       First, the Tokyo fix rates are published at 10:00 local time, whereby each bank determines
its own individual fix rate for their customers. This is a major difference compared to the
   3
    Throughout the paper we use military time. Therefore, 11:00 corresponds to 11:00 a.m., and 16:00 corresponds
to 4:00 p.m. Unless specifically noted, all times are Eastern Time (ET), denoting the generalized time zone in New
York. Over the year, the time zones in use in New York are Eastern Daylight Time (EDT) and Eastern Standard
Time (EST).




                                                        5

                      Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
                                                                                            !



                                                          "#$                 "#$




                           Figure 1. Currency Fixes across Time Zones


ECB and London fixes, where only one reference rate is published. The rates of the Tokyo fix
are based on transacted prices, which banks sample from their own customer transactions at
exactly 9:55. Further, the fixing rate applies not only to pre-fix but also to post-fix customer
orders, which are submitted after 10:00. The Tokyo fixing rate, therefore, has far-reaching
consequences for banks over the remainder of the trading day (see, e.g., Ito and Yamada,
2016).
      Second, reference rates from the ECB fix are based on a daily teleconference between
eurozone central banks at 14:15 CET. The reference rates are the average of quoted bid and
offer prices against the euro, which means that the ECB reference rate is not based on actual
transactions. However, the ECB reference rates are often used by non-financial corporations
in the euro-area that use forward contracts for hedging purposes (see, e.g., FSB, 2014). To
stress that the euro foreign exchange reference rates are for information purposes only, and
to discourage using the ECB fix for transactions, the ECB has moved the publication of
the reference rates to 16:00 CET in July 2016 while keeping the methodology unchanged
(ECB, 2019). In direct response, Thomson Reuters launched the WM/Reuters 14:00 CET
benchmark to target corporates who had previously valued, hedged, and settled cross-border
transactions using the ECB fix.
      Lastly, the WM/Reuters London fix rate is set at 16:00 London time and published by
Thomson Reuters. The benchmark rates are computed based on trades (and quotes for
less-liquid currency pairs) in a window around 16:00. In a five-minute interval around the
fix (i.e., between 15:57:30 and 16:02:30), traded rates are sourced every second from major
FX platforms and a median trade based on bid and offer rates is calculated from the pooled
sample of trades.4 In contrast to the Tokyo fix, the London fix only applies to orders that
  4
      Before 15 February 2015, the length of the window to calculate the fix rate was only a one-minute interval from



                                                          6

                        Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
arrive before 16:00 local time and which are requested to execute at the benchmark rate.
The London fix is prominently used by various groups of market participants to value their
international portfolio positions (see, e.g., Melvin and Prins, 2015).


                                               II.     Data

We compile our data from multiple sources including Refinitiv, CME, ICE, Olsen Financial
Technologies, and TickHistory. In this section we briefly describe the main data, while we
discuss additional data sources and further details regarding data pre-processing and cleaning
in Section I in the Internet Appendix. Our full sample starts in January 1999 and ends in
December 2019, covering 21 years of high-frequency, tick-by-tick data for the G9 currencies,
including the Australian dollar (AUD), the Canadian dollar (CAD), the euro (EUR), the
Japanese yen (JPY), the New Zealand dollar (NZD), the Norwegian krone (NOK), the
Swedish krona (SEK), the Swiss franc (CHF), and the British pound (GBP), all vis-à-vis
the U.S. dollar. These currencies are the most liquid currencies over the sample period, and
together they account for close to 75% of the total daily turnover in the foreign exchange
market based on calculations using information available from the latest BIS Triennial Survey
(see BIS, 2019).
    For the sample period from January 1999 to December 2019, we have high-frequency
indicative bid and ask quotes from Refinitiv Tick History (RTH), which essentially acts as
an aggregator of quotes from individual banks that are available to market participants to
trade “bank-to-client.” From the RTH data, we cannot gauge the volume of transactions or
the price at which transactions are executed even though most transactions in the foreign
exchange market are still executed over-the-counter.
    Starting in June 2006, we also have data from the RM platform that provides real-time
data on traded prices as well as volumes. Furthermore, the RM data include information
that allows us to calculate various measures of order flow. Together with Electronic Broking
Services (EBS), RM is the leading inter-dealer platform for foreign exchange trading with a
daily volume for spot transactions exceeding 100 billion U.S. dollars (compared to around
76 billion U.S. dollars traded on EBS). While not all currency pairs are equally liquid on
15:59:30 to 16:00:30.



                                                      7

                        Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
both platforms (RM, e.g., is the leading platform for Commonwealth currencies), Breedon
and Vitale (2010) show that returns for a given currency pair are very highly correlated.


                     III.     Currency Returns Around the Clock

In this section, we provide novel evidence on the intraday behavior of currency returns and,
in particular, document the following novel stylized fact: exchange rate returns display a
predictable intraday seasonality such that the U.S. dollar appreciates in the run up to foreign
exchange fixes and depreciates thereafter.


A.       Dissecting Currency Returns

Denote by st the log of the exchange rate, expressed in units of U.S. dollar per foreign
currency and ∆st the change in the log exchange rate between time t−1 and t. A negative ∆st
corresponds to an appreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currency. Working
in U.S. Eastern Time (ET) we define daily close-to-close log spot returns (∆sCT
                                                                             t
                                                                                C
                                                                                  ) as the
percent change in the mid-quote from 17:00 on day t − 1 to 17:00 on day t, i.e.,

                                           ∆sCT
                                             t
                                                C
                                                  = s17:00
                                                     t     − s17:00
                                                              t−1 .                                              (1)


Next, we split the day into different periods guided by the timing of the three main currency
fixes across the globe, i.e., (a) the Tokyo fix at 9:55 local time; (b) the ECB fix at 14:15
local time; and (c) the London fix at 16:00 local time. Hence, we calculate returns for the
following five intraday windows (all times expressed in ET): (i) pre-Tokyo fix (“pre-T,” 17:00
to 20:55), (ii) post-Tokyo fix (“post-T,” 20:55 to 2:00), (iii) pre-ECB fix (“pre-E,” 2:00 to
8:15), (iv) ECB fix to London fix (“E-L,” 8:15 to 11:00), and (v) post-London fix (“post-L,”
11:00 to 17:00).5 To distinguish between the post-Tokyo and the pre-ECB fix periods we
use 8:00 Frankfurt time (or 2:00 ET), i.e., the beginning of the FX trading day in Europe.
Similarly, we define the start of the FX trading day in New York as 8:00 ET.
     5
    Japan doesn’t follow daylight saving time and, hence, the time difference between Tokyo and New York is either
13 or 14 hours. This means that for part of the year the windows before and after the Tokyo fix end or start at 19:55
ET. In addition, there are a couple of weeks in the year when the time difference between New York and London and
the rest of Europe is an hour shorter than usual.




                                                         8

                       Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
B.        Currency Returns Around the Clock

We begin our analysis by plotting the average cumulative 5-minute log returns from 17:00 ET
on one day until 17:00 ET on the next day for the sample period January 1999 to December
2019. Figure 2 plots the average cumulative returns (in basis points) for holding the euro,
British pound, and Japanese yen while Figure 3 plots cumulative as well as the hourly
returns of the unconditional dollar portfolio (DOL) that goes long all foreign currencies in
equal weights.
         All currencies show a distinct pattern of depreciation against the U.S. dollar ahead of
the Tokyo fix at 20:55 ET followed by a reversal thereafter. Once European markets open at
2:00 ET, all currencies depreciate against the U.S. dollar ahead of the ECB fix. This drop is
much stronger for the European currencies and more muted for the Australian, New Zealand,
and Canadian dollar. The period between the ECB and London fix doesn’t exhibit a clear
pattern in the cross-section aside from the euro and yen which appreciate until one hour
before the London fix. After the London fix, all currencies show a strong appreciation versus
the U.S. dollar. This continues until the end of the business day in the U.S. at 17:00 ET with
the yen being the sole exception moving in the opposite direction. Overall, all currencies
apart from the yen appreciate during the U.S. intraday period and depreciate overnight.6

                                  [INSERT FIGURES 2 AND 3 HERE]

         Aggregating across currencies, the consistent depreciation of foreign currencies before
the Tokyo fix and after European markets open combined with the depreciation of the U.S.
dollar during the intraday period leads to a distinctive W -shaped pattern of the cumulative
returns measured over a full day.
         On average, the intraday appreciation and depreciation of the U.S. dollar amounts to
around 2 basis points twice a day. Given the size of the FX spot market, this translates
into very large sums. Using daily turnover numbers from the 2019 BIS Triennial Survey, the
pattern we detect implies daily swings exceeding a billion U.S. dollars. Table I summarizes
Figures 2 and 3 formally by reporting average FX log returns (i.e., exchange rate changes)
     6
    Distinguishing between different states of volatility, we show in Section II in the Internet Appendix that the
negative returns of the Japanese yen during the hours after the London fix are unrelated to its status as a safe-haven
and investment currency.



                                                          9

                       Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
along with t-statistics for the various intraday sub-periods as defined above.7

                                        [INSERT TABLE I HERE]

       As discussed above, all foreign currencies depreciate against the U.S. dollar after trading
in New York ceases and in anticipation of the Tokyo fix. The Australian and New Zealand
dollar (−2.8 and −3.4 bps, respectively) show the most negative average returns, while the
Swiss franc and the Canadian dollar depreciate the least compared to other currency pairs.
Average returns of all currency pairs are different from zero at the 1% level of significance.
The reversal after the Tokyo fix is equally statistically significant for all currencies in our
sample with the yen and the Norwegian krone exhibiting the highest magnitudes with 3.0
and 3.2 bps per day, respectively. Not very surprisingly, the dollar portfolio exhibits a very
strong and significant reversal pattern as well, dropping around 2 bps per day before the
Tokyo fix and recouping the losses thereafter.
       Leading up to the ECB fix, the European currencies and the yen significantly depreciate
against the U.S. dollar. The point estimates are measured with a large degree of statistical
confidence. The highest drops are observed for the euro and the Swedish krona with -
3.5 and -3.1 basis points per day, respectively. Between the ECB and the London fixes,
currencies don’t move as consistently in the cross-section as during other windows. This
may be because the window contains both a post-ECB fix depreciation as well as a pre-
London fix appreciation of the U.S. dollar as can be seen in Figures 2 and 3.
       After the London fix, the pattern is again quite striking: with the exception of the yen,
all currencies appreciate strongly (i.e., between 1.5 bps for the Canadian dollar and 2.7 bps
for the euro) during the period between the London fix and the close of markets in the U.S.,
whereas the yen depreciates by 1.2 bps. Overall, the dollar portfolio appreciates by 1.8 bps
and movements for all currencies are strongly statistically significant.
       The last column in Table I makes clear that the pattern we document is an intraday
seasonality (i.e., a predictable component) that does not carry over to close-to-close returns.
In fact, none of the currencies in our sample move by more than 1 bps per day over our
sample period and none of the close-to-close returns are statistically significant.
   7
     Note that at this stage we explicitly take daylight saving time into account by calculating pre- and post-Tokyo
fix returns using windows that line up around 9:55 Tokyo time. During the winter months when New York follows
EST, this means the pre-Tokyo window ends at 19:55 ET and during the summer months when New York follows
EDT, the pre-Tokyo window runs until 20:55 ET. All figures are plotted using ET only.


                                                        10

                       Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
C.        Robustness

We study the robustness of the reversals around the fixes across two dimensions: (i) over
time; and (ii) across datasets.
         First, Table II splits intraday dollar portfolio returns for the respective windows into four
subsamples. In each subsample we observe a W -shaped return pattern across the 24-hour
trading day. The reversal of the dollar portfolio is strongly significant in all subsamples
between 1999 and 2014, averaging around 2 bps per day on either side of the fix. In the 2014
to 2019 sample, the reversal around the Tokyo fix is notably smaller but remains statistically
significant. Thus, pre- and post-fix returns are very robust over time and consistent with the
notion of a reversal that nets out to zero on average, implying that intraday FX seasonalities
are a robust feature of daily data. That said, on a daily basis the movements remain on the
order of a few basis points, begging the question whether the pattern is merely an artefact
of using RTH indicative quotes to calculate log spot changes.

                                 [INSERT TABLES II AND III HERE]

         We examine this question using three alternative data sets, computing intraday returns
for the dollar portfolio from mid quotes of RTH forwards and CME futures as well as from
value-weighted average prices (VWAPs) from RM. We restrict the analysis to a common
sample that spans the period from June 2006 to December 2019. The currencies we include
in the calculation are the Canadian dollar, the Swiss franc and the Swedish krona in addition
to the euro, pound and yen.8 This mirrors the currency composition of the ICE U.S. dollar
index (USDX), an actively traded currency dollar index, for which we report intraday returns
as well.
         Table III shows that the magnitude of the reversals around the fixes computed from
forwards is very close to those computed from spot rates, suggesting that there is no intraday
pattern in implied interest rate differentials. The results from the CME as well as the ICE
futures are also strongly statistically significant as well as consistent with the main results
in Table I, confirming that the patterns also carry over to firm quotes taken from electronic
     8
    Due to data limitations, we deviate from that list and do not include the Swedish krona for the dollar portfolio
that is calculated from CME futures. Also, RM data for the Swedish krona is only available for the period after 2010.




                                                         11

                        Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
FX derivatives markets. Finally, the patterns are also present in traded prices sourced from
RM, and are thus not absorbed by the effective bid-ask spread.
     In summary, the central contribution of this paper – the observation that the U.S. dollar
appreciates in the run- up to foreign exchange fixes and depreciates thereafter – is robust
over time, across datasets, and across different segments of the foreign exchange market.
This is important for a number of reasons that go beyond a pure academic interest. Most
importantly, the presence of a robust intraday seasonality in foreign exchange spot and
derivatives markets implies that the timing of portfolio adjustments should be an important
consideration for asset managers, institutional investors, and corporates who receive cash
flows in U.S. dollars and must convert back to their local currencies, or vice versa.


                                 IV.      Reversal Returns

In this section, we study a trading strategy that exploits the reversals by taking a long
position in the U.S. dollar before the Tokyo and ECB fixes that is reversed post-Tokyo and
post-London fix, respectively:

           ∆sTokyo
             t     = −∆spre-T
                        t     + ∆spost−T
                                  t             and ∆sEurope
                                                      t      = −∆spre−E
                                                                  t     + ∆spost−L
                                                                            t      ,       (2)


     where ∆spre-T
             t     and ∆spost−T
                         t      are the returns for the pre- and post-Tokyo windows, and
spre−E
 t     and ∆spost−L
             t      are the returns for the pre-ECB and the post-London windows, respec-
tively. Note that the reversal returns are defined for either the Tokyo or the Europe window.
The latter does not include the interval between the ECB and the London fixes as the results
in Table I suggest that there is no clear directional movement during that period.


A.    Summary Statistics

We start by reporting summary statistics for the reversal returns for all currencies as well as
the dollar portfolio in Table IV. First, we show that daily reversal returns are significantly
more often positive than negative. For the reversals around the Tokyo fix, the differences
are always strongly statistically significant for all currencies, ranging from 55% positive for
the Swiss franc to almost 60% for the dollar portfolio. For the Europe window, the fractions
range between 51% for the Pacific and Asian currencies and 55% or 56% for the pound,

                                                  12

                    Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
euro, and the dollar portfolio, for example. The differences for all European currencies are
strongly statistically significant; and only for the Japanese yen do we obtain a p-value below
5%. These results for the reversal returns are rather striking considering that high frequency
returns are unpredictable in frictionless and efficient markets. Put differently, systematically
predictable return reversals suggest a significant microstructure effect in play around the
fixes. Indeed, when considering daily close-to-close currency returns, only the Australian
dollar has more than 51% positive return days.
   To further put the results in perspective, daily returns to the S&P 500 stock index
are positive 54% of the days. Moreover, if the daily results are aggregated to a monthly
frequency, we find that returns around the Tokyo fix are positive for at least 70% of months
in the sample. For the Europe window, the reversal returns for the European currencies are
positive for at least two-thirds of all months, again with the fraction for the monthly S&P
500 returns lagging that number (see Section II in the Internet Appendix for all details).

                                 [INSERT TABLE IV HERE]

   The consistent positive return bias is relatively small, but translate into significant an-
nualized returns over time before taking transaction costs into account. While Table IV lists
the daily returns in basis points, the annualized returns for the Tokyo window range between
6.2% for the Swiss franc and 14.2% for the New Zealand dollar. For the Europe window,
the annualized returns are particularly high for the euro, pound, and Swiss franc, at 15.6%,
12.4% and 12%, respectively. Annualized standard deviations are generally below 8% for
all currencies and both reversal windows, or about half the standard deviation of the S&P
500 index over the same time period. Furthermore, most reversal return portfolios exhibit
positive skewness and fat tails. This is in stark contrast to, for example, daily and monthly
stock returns that are significantly negatively skewed for the same sample period.
   The characteristics for the reversal portfolios are also very different compared to those
of the carry portfolios reported in Brunnermeier, Nagel, and Pedersen (2009). While carry
trades are profitable but have fat tails and are heavily exposed to crash risk, our reversal port-
folios generate positive returns with fat tails but generally positive skewness. Furthermore,
the skewness of the returns seems unrelated to interest rate differentials, unlike close-to-close
currency returns where positive skewness is associated only with low interest rate currencies.

                                                 13

                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
In short, the reversal portfolios generate significant returns with favorable characteristics.
Next, we explore the behavior of the reversal portfolios over time.


B.        Return Indices

Using the daily reversal returns, we construct return indices that are displayed in Panels
(a) and (b) of Figure 4. The reversal portfolios display large persistence over time and for
both windows we consider. All portfolios (apart from the yen for the Europe window) accrue
steadily over the whole period but with a stronger appreciation around the local fixes. An
investment of one U.S. dollar in the yen for a trading strategy around the Tokyo fix climbs
to over 12.2 U.S. dollars by the end of 2019. The same strategy for the euro, pound, and
dollar portfolio results in a final portfolio value of 8.9, 5.3 and 8.6 U.S. dollars, respectively.
In contrast, the portfolio values for the Europe window are 26.9, 13.5 and 6.4 U.S. dollars
for the euro, pound, and dollar portfolio, respectively, while the yen portfolio actually loses
about 6% of the initial value.

                                       [INSERT FIGURE 4 HERE]

         In Panels (c) and (d) of Figure 4, we display the year-by-year reversal returns for the
dollar portfolio. For both fixes,the returns increased during 2001 when the dot-com bubble
burst as well as during the credit crisis, reaching returns of over 20% per year. On the other
hand, returns are comparatively lower for the Tokyo and for the Europe windows in 2007.
         While the reversal returns are mostly positive, we do observe a downward trend towards
the end of the sample period, the reasons for which we can only speculate. First, anecdotal
evidence suggests that in the later sample period, arbitrage capital is indeed allocated to
exploiting the reversal patterns, leading to a decline in the intraday return predictability.
         Second, a number of regulatory changes were implemented in response to the WM/Reuters
fixing scandal that broke in 2013. The lower average trading volumes around the fixes and
lower reversal returns in the more recent sample period may be related to these reforms.9
At the same time, no clear evidence links changes in the level of reversal returns to the
fixing scandal or the ensuing reforms. In fact, some of the largest average European reversal
     9
   For discussions related to regulatory changes, the London fixing scandal, and the introduction of the FX Global
Code of Conduct (www.globalfxc.org/docs/fx_global.pdf), see, e.g., Melvin and Prins (2015), Evans (2018) and
Evans, O’Neill, Rime, and Saakvitne (2020).


                                                       14

                       Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
returns were realized in 2015 and 2016.10 In summary, reversals around the fixes are a robust
feature of the data over an extended sample period for all G9 currencies.


C.      Alternative Reversal Times

Finally, we examine whether the fixes are the salient turning points during the day and
whether the reversals we document are a more general feature of the data arising due to the
autocorrelation in returns and are unrelated to the benchmarks.
       To this end, we calculate alternative reversal returns for the Tokyo and the Europe
windows, by moving the reversal points away from the respective fixes. Figure 5 plots the
resulting returns when the reversal points are moved either up or down the timeline in five-
minute increments. The red bar in each panel denotes our benchmark reversal returns for
the two windows, while the other bars denote the reversal returns that are calculated for
same length of windows that are moved up or down the timeline.

                                      [INSERT FIGURE 5 HERE]

       Visually, the results are striking: for both the Tokyo and the Europe windows, the
maximum reversal return is obtained when the reversal points are aligned with the fixes.
Moving the reversal time away from the fix leads to uniformly lower average returns that
are almost monotonically decreasing with the distance to the fix. Thus, the intraday return
reversals are not only a persistent feature of the data, but they are tightly aligned to the
publication times of FX benchmark rates. We provide further evidence to support this
conclusion in the next section.


                                 V.     Natural Experiments

This section further highlights the importance of the fixes in pinning down intraday reversals
using three quasi-natural experiments that exploit (i) the fact that Japan does not follow
daylight saving time, (ii) asynchronous holidays between Japan and the U.S., and (iii) data
before and after the introduction of the London and ECB fixes in 1994 and 1999, respectively.
  10
    Bloomberg first reported on the fixing scandal in June 2013 (www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2013-06-11/
traders-said-to-rig-currency-rates-to-profit-off-clients).




                                                    15

                     Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
A.    A Daylight Saving Time Test

As Japan doesn’t follow DST, the time difference between New York and Tokyo varies
throughout the year: it is 14 hours during the winter but an hour less when DST is observed
between March and November. In Figure 6 we plot the intraday patterns for the euro, pound,
and yen during Japanese trading hours but aligned with Eastern Time (i.e., New York time).
The solid line depicts return patterns during the winter while the dotted line depicts the
patterns when DST is in use in the U.S. The results clearly show that the spike in the U.S.
dollar at the Tokyo fix moves by one hour during roughly eight months of the year (from the
perspective of a U.S. investor). At the same time, no clear pattern emerges that could be
attributed to the start or the end of the business day. This means that while a clear shift in
the spike of the price pattern aligns with the Tokyo fix, no comparable differences exist for
the equivalent move of Asian market opening and closing times measured in Eastern Time.

                                  [INSERT FIGURE 6 HERE]


B.    Asynchronous Holidays

Japan allows for a second quasi-natural experiment by exploiting the fact that holidays are
not fully aligned internationally. In our sample, we have 304 Japanese holidays that are not
holidays in the U.S. (or are otherwise excluded from the sample). As Tokyo fix reference rates
are not published on holidays (see, e.g., Ito and Yamada, 2017), we can explore whether the
fixes are indeed driving intraday reversals by testing whether the reversal returns introduced
in Section IV are present on those days.

                                   [INSERT TABLE V HERE]

     The average daily returns expressed in basis points (but still excluding transaction costs)
for the 304 Japanese holidays as well as the remaining 4,958 days in our sample are presented
in Table V. During the regular business days, the reversal returns are all substantial and
highly statistically significant in line with Table IV. However, these results disappear during
Japanese holidays, as the average returns are generally dramatically lower and none of them
are statistically significant (for many currencies, the average return is close to zero, and for
the yen and the dollar portfolio, the drop is about 75% and 80%, respectively). Using the

                                                  16

                    Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
same split for the reversals around the European fixes, we observe that magnitudes are even
higher on Japanese holidays and statistically highly significant for all European currencies
and the dollar portfolio, despite the much smaller number of observations. Finally, the
third and sixth columns of Table V report the p-values from a one-sided test that Japanese
holiday reversal returns are equal to those on business days against the alternative that they
are smaller. For the Tokyo fix, we reject the null for almost all currencies at the 5% level,
while for the Europe window we cannot reject the null.
     While the previous section highlights the importance of the timing for the reversals around
the Tokyo fix, the results in this section show that the reversals are virtually non-existent on
days when no benchmark rate is published. As these days are trading days in Europe and
the U.S., no such difference can be observed for reversal returns during the Europe window.
Overall, the evidence clearly points to the Tokyo fix as the salient turning point for return
reversals during the Tokyo trading day.


C.    Return Patterns and the Introduction of Currency Benchmarks

The three foreign exchange benchmarks we study are available throughout our main sample
period that starts after the introduction of the euro in 1999 (although the timing of publica-
tion for the ECB fix changes in 2016). Extending our sample back to the mid-1980s allows us
to consider a final, quasi-natural experiment by comparing intraday currency return patterns
before and after the introduction of the fixes.
     First, consider the introduction of the London fix in 1994 (see, for example, Melvin and
Prins, 2015). Figure 7 plots the intraday return pattern for the period February 1986 to
December 1993 (dotted line) and January 1999 to December 2019 (our benchmark sample
period, solid line). Before the introduction of the London fix, the plots reveal a distinct
appreciation of foreign currencies during the first hour of trading starting at around 8:00
ET. Thereafter, the Deutsche mark continues to appreciate until roughly the end of the
trading day in Germany. On the other hand, the pound displays a more or less steady
appreciation throughout the New York trading day. Finally, the yen depreciates on average
after the initial appreciation.

                                  [INSERT FIGURE 7 HERE]


                                                  17

                    Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
     Interestingly, the patterns are distinctly different for our benchmark sample period once
the London fix is well established. All three currencies still exhibit an initial appreciation
early in the day in New York, although the turning point is now lined up with the ECB
fix at 8:15 ET. Before the London fix, there is a slight drop for all currencies that reverses
thereafter for the euro and the pound that appreciate steadily until the end of the trading
day.
     Second, we study the ECB fix that was first published in 1999. As discussed in Section
I, the ECB started delaying the publication of the reference rates until 16:00 CET in July
2016 in a further attempt to discourage using the ECB fix for transactions. Table VI shows
15-minute intervals around the ECB fix for the period before the introduction of the euro
(Panel A), from January 2000 to June 2016 (Panel B), and after the change of the publication
time (Panel C). In the early part of the sample and before the introduction of the ECB fix,
we observe the turning point of the currency patterns between 7:15 and 8:15, i.e., all three
currency pairs exhibit slightly negative (yet often insignificant) average returns before 7:15
that turn positive (and become significant) before 8:15. This is in line with the observation
that foreign currencies tend to appreciate significantly in the early hours of trading in New
York, although the turning point does not seem to be pinned down exactly. This changes with
the introduction of the ECB fix. The results in Panel B show negative (and often significant)
returns during both 15-minute intervals starting at 7:45 as well as 8:00. Then, returns reverse
distinctly and the 8:15 to 8:30 window exhibits positive returns that are strongly significant
for both the euro and the pound. The most striking results are presented in Panel C.
These results focus on the change in the publication time of the ECB reference rate and the
introduction of the new WM/Reuters 14:00 CET benchmark which moves the turning point
to 8:00 ET. From July 2016, the window from 7:45 to 8:00 now exhibits negative returns
while the returns measured during the new post-fix window from 8:00 to 8:15 are positive
and strongly statistically significant for all three currencies.

                                  [INSERT TABLE VI HERE]


D.     Changing Trading Patterns Around the London Fix

High-frequency volume data is not available for the sample period before the introduction
of the fixes. Instead, we use the number of quote updates for CME FX futures sampled

                                                  18

                    Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
within five-minute intervals as a proxy for trading activity.11 Figure 8 plots the average
quote updates around the London fix as a fraction of the total number for the time period
between 8:35 ET and 14:00 ET for the Japanese yen and the British pound.12
       Before the introduction of fix (dotted line in Panels (a) and (b)), activity spikes both
in the early and the late trading hours in New York. Otherwise, the line is fairly flat
with a slight uptick at 10:00 ET around the expiration time of currency options. For our
benchmark sample period from January 1999 to October 2021 (solid line in Panels (a) and
(b)) the pattern looks distinctly different. Most importantly, we can observe a spike for both
currencies at the London fix. At the same time, the spike at 10:00 ET is more pronounced,
and we can still observe significantly more activity in the early hours, coinciding with the
expiration time of currency options. However, compared to the period before the introduction
of the London fix, activity during the later trading hours in New York is much smaller.

                                       [INSERT FIGURE 8 HERE]

       In Panels (c) and (d) we consider the one-hour window around 11:00 ET for various time
periods. One can clearly see that before the introduction of the fix there is no increase in
trading activity around 11:00 ET (red dotted line). Similarly, the spike is very distinct for
the period after 2006. For the two windows after the introduction of the fix, we observe a
gradual increase in quoting activity around 11:00 ET.
       In summary, we show a distinct difference between trading activity before the London fix
was introduced compared to a period when the fix is well established. Moreover, beyond the
central finding of this paper, the findings in this section speak to theories of ‘liquidity begets
liquidity.’ For example, Duffie, Dworczak, and Zhu (2017) show that benchmarks (or fixings)
raise social surplus by increasing the volume of beneficial trade and generate self-fulfilling
efficient matching between dealers and customers.
  11
      For the sample period when information on both time series is available, we show that average quoting activity
and average trading volume closely track each other over the course of the trading day. The correlation between the
two series is 0.98 and 0.93 for JPY and GBP, respectively. A comparison of the intraday dynamics of both series is
provided in Section IV in the Internet Appendix.
   12
      In Section IV in the Internet Appendix, we provide additional evidence for other currency pairs for which data
is available for this time period.




                                                        19

                       Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
                     VI.      Order Imbalances and Price Reversals

In this section, we argue that the FX market microstructure literature provides a potential
economic explanation for the return patterns we document. Indeed, this literature offers,
broadly speaking, two explanations for intraday price patterns: (i) the presence of asym-
metric information in the market; and (ii) inventory (risk) management by market makers.
The latter strand of the literature recognizes that in supplying liquidity, financial interme-
diaries (arbitrageurs) face inventory risk for which they demand a premium. The premium
demanded by liquidity providers arises in two ways: through bid-ask spreads and through
positive expected returns for holding risky assets. Supply and demand shocks have a tran-
sient impact and generate price reversals in such a setting. We show that our main empirical
finding is consistent with an explanation based on demand for immediacy combined with
a structural demand for U.S. dollars at the fixes. In Section III in the Internet Appendix,
we discuss and rule out a set of alternative potential explanations, such as news about the
macroeconomy and monetary policy, suggesting that (asymmetric) information alone is an
implausible explanation for the intraday return patterns we document. Moreover, the pat-
terns are not explained by intraday volatility, price jumps or variations in market liquidity.


A.     Inventory Management

In benchmark models of inventory management (see, e.g., Stoll, 1978, and Grossman and
Miller, 1988), dealers provide liquidity to traders that demand immediacy before offsetting
their positions to new traders arriving later in the day. A feature of these models is that
prices exhibit reversal patterns around ‘liquidity events’ due to order imbalances absorbed
by intermediaries. We argue that the key times within the day for liquidity events to occur,
i.e., for order imbalances to manifest, are at the major fixings.
      To support this claim, we study dealer-to-dealer (D2D) trading volumes on RM, the
leading inter-dealer platform for Commonwealth currencies. Figure 9 provides a visual rep-
resentation of trading volumes throughout the day for the G9 currencies.13 For every hour
over a 24-hour period, we calculate the average fraction of daily volume traded. For all cur-
rencies, the two hours around the London fix are the busiest with a total fraction of between
 13
      Section IV in the Internet Appendix further discusses intraday volume characteristics on the RM platform.



                                                         20

                        Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
17.5% and 27% traded, while the second busiest hours are those around the ECB fix. Even
though trading on RM is concentrated during European and U.S. trading hours in general,
the heatmap also reveals a spike in trading activity around the Tokyo fix for the yen, the
Australian dollar, and the New Zealand dollar.

                                       [INSERT FIGURE 9 HERE]

       In inventory risk models, dealers are compensated for providing liquidity through bid-
ask spreads and positive expected returns for holding risky assets. Assuming a structural
demand for U.S. dollars at the fix as implied by the return patterns presented earlier, the
mechanism through which this might occur is an accumulation of U.S. dollars ahead of the
fix that are subsequently sold at higher prices to clients at the fix.14 This is a well-known
practice in the foreign exchange market commonly referred to as ‘pre-fix hedging.’ Indeed,
banks with advanced knowledge of order imbalances are explicit in their intentions to hedge
their positions and make clear that this practice may have negative consequences for the
rates at which client orders are executed.15
       In the following section, we use the volume and order flow data available from RM to
test standard predictions arising in inventory management models.16 Different from the rest
of the paper, we focus here on results for the pound and the Australian dollar around the
European fixes for mainly two reasons. First, RM is the preferred platform for Common-
wealth currencies only, meaning that volumes for the euro and the yen are not necessarily
representative on RM. Second, liquidity on RM is much higher during European and U.S.
trading hours. The results for the Tokyo fix are in line with those discussed here, but are
presented in Section VI in the Internet Appendix.
  14
     In contemporaneous work, Osler and Turnbull (2020) propose a model with this mechanism embedded that
predicts gradual price drifts together with reversals around the fix.
  15
     The practice is usually described in the “FX Disclosure Notice” that forms part of the client agree-
ment to trade currencies. See, e.g., the notice by Banco Santander (www.santander.com/en/landing-pages/
foreign-exchange-disclosure-notice). Pre-fix hedging has also attracted attention from policymakers as evi-
denced in the Global Foreign Exchange Committee press release on the relevance of pre-hedging activities for the
principles of good practices in the foreign exchange market (https://www.globalfxc.org/press/p210511.htm).
  16
     Section V in the Internet Appendix reviews the Grossman and Miller (1988) framework recast in the context of
foreign exchange fixings, and derives predictions linking order imbalances and FX volatility to the reversal returns
defined in Section IV.




                                                        21

                       Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
B.      Unconditional Order Imbalance

We start by examining the relationship between the unconditional reversal patterns and
unconditional order imbalances. Indeed, Grossman and Miller (1988) write that “in the
absence of an asynchronization of order flows [reversal returns should equal zero]. It is the
asynchronization of these flows and the finite risk-bearing capacity of market makers that
leads [reversal returns] to deviate from zero.” 17 Thus, the stylized fact that the U.S. dollar
exhibits a local peak at fixing times implies an unconditional net demand for U.S. dollars
(or, equivalently, a net supply of foreign currency) at each fix.
       Panel A in Table VII contains pre- and post-fix summary statistics for order flow on RM,
defined as buyer minus seller-initiated trading volume, i.e., a negative order flow implies U.S.
dollar buying pressure. We report both median and mean values, but our focus lies on the
former as the distribution is skewed and contains significant outliers. For both currencies, the
means and the medians are negative before the London fix and positive thereafter. Moreover,
the medians are strongly statistically significant for the pre- and post-fix windows. For the
pre-fix window, the median order imbalance is around 20 million U.S. dollars for either
currency, which translates to 6% and 10% of the volume traded at the London fix for the
pound and Australian dollar, respectively. Table VII also shows that the fraction of days
with negative (positive) order flow is significantly larger than 50% before (after) the London
fix for both currencies. Pre-fix results are qualitatively similar when considering the ECB
fix that takes place roughly three hours before the London fix, i.e., the unconditional order
imbalance is not simply driven by trading activity that occurs tightly around the London
fix.

                           [INSERT TABLE VII AND FIGURE 10 HERE]

       Figure 10 displays the median normalized order flow throughout the day for one-hour
intervals. The positive (blue) bars represent U.S. dollar selling pressure while the negative
(red) bars display U.S. dollar buying pressure. The figure visualizes how the price patterns
documented in Section III carry over to patterns in quantities in the inter-dealer market,
  17
    For ease of interpretation, we change the notation in the quote and replace E1 r̃ by “reversal returns” to match
our terminology.




                                                        22

                       Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
displaying an unconditional U.S. dollar buying pressure ahead of the London fix that reverses
thereafter.
     The explanation proposed in this section relies on a structural demand for U.S. dollars
arising in the dealer-to-client (D2C) market. However, our order flow data is only available
for a dealer-to-dealer (D2D) platform. When inferring a structural demand for U.S. dollars
from our data, we assume that D2D order flow can act as a proxy for D2C order flow.
This is in line with a large literature (see, e.g., Evans and Lyons, 2002; Ito and Yamada,
2017; or Bjønnes, Osler, and Rime, 2021) that tests inventory and asymmetric information
models where D2D order flow is predicted to have explanatory power for contemporaneous
and leading price changes. Indeed, the two-tier structure of the FX market is such that
a vast majority of volume is intermediated by a small number of liquidity providers. Put
differently, a small number of dealers absorbs order flow from a vast number of customers.18
Managing inventory risk, these dealers try to internally offset dollar supply or demand as
much as possible by dealing with customers directly. Remaining imbalances that cannot be
hedged internally are routed to inter-dealer platforms and offloaded to other liquidity traders.
Thus, any demand imbalance observable in the D2D market can be reasonably assumed to
be positively correlated with unobservable aggregate imbalances arising in the D2C market.
Moreover, these imbalances drive inventory effects with risk-averse market makers.


C.    Conditional Order Imbalance and FX Volatility

In this section we study predictions from inventory models which state that returns for
providing immediacy are higher when order imbalances are larger, and even more so in
states of heightened uncertainty when risk-averse market makers demand a higher premium
for holding larger price risk.
     To this end, we double sort the daily reversal returns defined in Section IV for the Europe
window into six portfolios based on the pre-fix net dollar demand (low, medium, high) and
FX volatility (low and high). We use the same definition for order flow as above, implying
that low net dollar demand (DD) is characterized by positive order flow and high net dollar
demand by negative order flow. FX volatility (F XV ) is computed as the intraday sum
  18
     In fact, data from Euromoney FX Surveys show that within any given year from 1999 to 2019, between 30% and
60% of total spot volume is concentrated amongst five banks. In 2019, the top five liquidity providers accounted for
40% of total volume.


                                                        23

                       Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
of squared returns during the previous day computed at the 1-minute sampling frequency.
Table VIII reports the average imbalances, volatilities and reversal returns for each of the
pound and Australian dollar portfolios.

                                [INSERT TABLE VIII HERE]

   First, the distribution of net dollar demand appears quite symmetric conditional on the
level of volatility. That is, there is no tendency of pre-fix dollar demand to arise in states
of larger FX volatility or vice versa. Furthermore, consistent with an unconditional pre-
fix dollar demand, the order imbalances in the DDM buckets are negative for both the
Australian dollar as well as the pound. In fact, summing up the order imbalances across the
sorted portfolios, we recover the mean values in Table VII.
   Second, conditional on the level of DD, moving from low to high F XV always increases
the magnitude of reversal returns, and these differences are highly statistically significant.
Third, moving from states of pre-fix dollar supply (DDL ) to pre-fix dollar demand (DDH ),
reversal returns go from being negative to strongly positive, and these differences are also
strongly statistically significant. Of course, conditional on any imbalance (either excess
demand or supply of U.S. dollars), inventory models predict positive average returns for
liquidity provision. The reason that reversal returns are negative in the DDL buckets is
that, throughout the paper, we define the return reversals as a strategy that goes long the
U.S. dollar before the fix and reverses the position thereafter. Thus, the returns always
reflect a strategy based on the unconditional imbalance discussed in the previous section.
   Fourth, in terms of economic magnitudes, return reversals can be quite large depending on
whether volatility is high or low. For DDL the reversal returns go from -15bps to -25bps for
the Australian dollar and from -12bps to -24bps for the pound, and for DDH , they increase
from 16bps to 30bps for the Australian dollar and from 22bps to 29bps for the pound. In
percentage terms, the increases in the reversal returns as we move from low to high volatility
days range from 33% to 101% for the high and low net dollar demand buckets. Reversal
returns for the DDM buckets are much smaller across both volatility states. However, that
is not very surprising as imbalances are also small (especially during the low volatility days),
again consistent with an inventory management hypothesis.
   In sum, and as predicted by Grossman and Miller (1988)-style models, return reversals

                                                 24

                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
are larger in magnitude when order imbalances are larger in absolute terms, and even more
so in periods of heightened uncertainty as proxied by FX volatility.


D.    Asymmetric Information vs. Inventory Effects

We now study a regression specification closely related to Campbell, Grossman, and Wang
(1993) and Andrade, Chang, and Seasholes (2008) who derive price pressure predictions in
equilibrium models. In their models, returns are positively related to contemporaneous order
imbalances through an information effect, and negatively related to lagged order imbalances
through an inventory effect. Considering the effects of asymmetric information and inventory
risk together, we estimate


                               ∆spost
                                 t    = α + β1 OFtpre + β2 OFtpost + εt                      (3)


where ∆spost
        t    denotes the return measured over the post-fix window on day t, while OFtpre
and OFtpost are the order flow before and after the fix, respectively.

                                    [INSERT TABLE IX HERE]

     The results are summarized as follows. First, all coefficients on contemporaneous order
flow in Table IX are strongly positive and highly significant, consistent with the idea that
dealer order flow is informative about price discovery. Second, the coefficient on the lagged
pre-fix order flow is always estimated to be negative and significant, consistent with condi-
tional reversals arising around the fix due to inventory effects. Interestingly, the relationship
between pre-fix order flow and post-fix returns remains statistically and economically strong
if we exclude the last three hours leading up to the London fix and measure the order flow
only up to the ECB fix. Thus, inventory effects are not simply driven by trading activity in
the last few minutes leading up to the London fix as studied in the previous literature (see,
e.g., Evans, 2018).
     For the pound, the point estimate of −4.2 for the lagged order flow before the London
fix implies that an order imbalance of one standard deviation (amounting to approximately
5.5% of the trading volume during that window) leads to a reversal of around 2.5 bps, which
is larger than the average unconditional effect we document in Section III. For the Australian


                                                    25

                      Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
dollar, the results are even stronger: a one standard deviation shock to lagged order flow
(surprisingly also 5.5% of trading volume during the window) implies a reversal of over 3.3
bps.


E.      Liquidity Provision

In this section we explore returns to liquidity provision and gauge whether dealers are indeed
providing liquidity at the fixes.19
       We start our analysis by considering a trader that seeks to exploit the intraday pre-
dictability around the European fixes. Expecting an appreciation of the U.S. dollar they
enter a position in the D2C market at t = 1 and subsequently sell U.S. dollars at the fix
(t = 2). To also benefit from the post-fix depreciation, they then reverse the trade and short
the U.S. dollar, closing out the position at t = 3. Throughout, the trader always transacts
in the D2C market and is always the liquidity demander, implying that they sell the foreign
currency at the bid at t = 1 and t = 3. Most importantly though, at the fix they buy the
foreign currency at the ask, sa2,D2C (or, equivalently, sell U.S. dollars at the bid). The result-
ing returns are the two legs of the reversal returns defined in equation (6) with transaction
costs taken into account:

                    ∆spre     b        a
                      t,LD = s1,D2C − s2,D2C          and ∆spost     a        b
                                                            t,LD = −s2,D2C + s3,D2C ,                           (4)


where the total return is calculated as the sum of the two legs.
       In addition to the trader, we consider a dealer that acts as a liquidity provider in the
D2C market and, on average, will purchase foreign currencies for U.S. dollars at the fix
to satisfy the unconditional demand for U.S. dollars. In contrast to a liquidity demander,
however, liquidity providers purchase the foreign currency at the (lower) bid price. Further,
we assume that the dealer sources U.S. dollars in the D2D market in the morning (t = 1).
To match the speculative positions of the trader, we also assume that the dealer reverses
their position at the fix as well by shorting the U.S. dollar and closing out the position in the
D2D market in a post fix trading period (t = 3). Note that when sourcing the U.S. dollars
  19
    This question is related to a literature on the supply and demand of liquidity, such as the return to liquidity-
providing trading strategies (Nagel, 2012), liquidity demand by mutual funds (Coval and Stafford, 2007; Da, Gao,
and Jagannathan, 2011; Rinne and Suominen, 2016) or by hedge funds (Jylhä, Rinne, and Suominen, 2014; Choi,
Shachar, and Shin, 2019).


                                                        26

                       Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
in the D2D market, the liquidity provider acts as the ‘aggressor’ and sells foreign currency
at the bid price sbt,D2D . The dealer buys the foreign currency at the bid (or, equivalently,
sells U.S. dollars at the ask) only when providing liquidity at the fix. The resulting returns
for the liquidity provider and the two legs can be calculated as follows:

                     ∆spre     b        b
                       t,LP = s1,D2D − s2,D2C          and ∆spost     b        b
                                                             t,LP = −s2,D2C + s3,D2D ,       (5)


where the total return is again calculated as the sum of the two legs.

                                         [INSERT TABLE X HERE]

      Table X reports unconditional returns for a liquidity demander and a liquidity provider
as per equations (4) and (5). The results are summarized as follows. First, for the trader
(or liquidity demander), reversal returns turn negative once transaction costs are taken into
account. Thus, the unconditional return patterns cannot easily be arbitraged away by traders
that seek to exploit the intraday reversals. Second, and most importantly, returns to liquidity
provision are positive, in line with the notion that dealers supply dollars in exchange for a
liquidity premium. The observation that both the pre-fix returns for liquidity provision are
significantly positive is further consistent with a situation where clients are demanding U.S.
dollars ahead of the fixings and dealers raise their prices when streaming quotes. Indeed, if
it were dealers demanding U.S. dollar liquidity, one would expect the opposite finding, i.e.,
negative returns for an unconditional trade in this direction.20


F.     Discussion

To summarize, we exploit data from both D2C and D2D platforms to present evidence
consistent with an inventory risk explanation: we show that (i) an unconditional demand for
U.S. dollars manifests itself at the fix; (ii) return reversals are larger when order imbalances
are bigger and in states of higher uncertainty; and (iii) expected returns to liquidity provision
are substantial, providing indirect evidence that dealers indeed act as liquidity providers to
customers demanding U.S. dollars, as opposed to demanding U.S. dollars which are sourced
from their clients.
 20
      We thank an anonymous editor and referee for highlighting this question.



                                                         27

                        Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
   While the unconditional imbalance lines up with an unconditional V -shaped reversal
pattern, our analysis is silent about the origin of this unconditional demand. However,
we speculate that a predictable demand for U.S. dollars at the fix could be related to the
special role of the United States as the world’s provider of safe assets and the dollar as the
world’s reserve currency (see, e.g., Jiang, Krishnamurthy, and Lustig, 2021). We also note
that a predictable demand for immediacy at certain points within the day is consistent with
existing evidence on intraday equity reversals (see, e.g., Heston, Korajczyk, and Sadka, 2010
and Lou, Polk, and Skouras, 2017).


                                     VII.      Conclusion

In this paper we document a new stylized fact for intraday return patterns in currency
markets: the U.S. dollar gradually appreciates ahead of the three major currency fixings and
depreciates thereafter. That is, the U.S. dollar reaches an intraday peak at the Tokyo, ECB,
and London fixes.
   Using a set of natural experiments, we pin down the importance of published benchmark
rates for the intraday reversal patterns. Furthermore, we show that the reversals around
the fixes are a pervasive feature of the data, robust over the 21 years of our data span, and
are present for all of the G9 currencies, which cover close to 75% of global spot transaction
volumes. The return patterns spill over into over-the-counter forward as well as the exchange-
traded futures markets. This is important for institutional investors and corporate hedgers
alike, because it implies that the intraday timing of their speculative and hedging activities,
as well as the timing of currency conversions and portfolio adjustments, affects their balance
sheets.
   We rule out a set of candidate explanations and provide evidence that is consistent with
an explanation based on demand for immediacy combined with a structural demand for
U.S. dollars at the fixes. Using volume data from a dealer-to-dealer market we show an
unconditional order imbalance towards U.S. dollars ahead of the fixes. Reversal returns are
increasing with higher order imbalance and higher uncertainty as proxied by FX volatility.
Moreover, returns to liquidity provision can be substantial for dealers that source U.S. dollars
in the dealer-to-dealer market and act as liquidity providers at the fix. Finally, while an


                                                  28

                    Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
inventory management explanation is supported by the data, we leave the question of why
there is a tilting towards pre-fix U.S. dollar demand for future research.




                                                29

                  Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
                                        VIII.         Tables

NOTE 1: Intraday Returns. Different intraday periods around the Tokyo, ECB and London
fixes are defined as follows: The pre-Tokyo fix window starts at 17:00 ET until the Tokyo fix at 9:55
local time (“pre-T”), followed by the post-Tokyo window (“post-T”) that runs until 2:00 ET (when
European markets open). The pre-ECB fix window (“pre-E”) spans the period between European
opening hours until the ECB fix at 8:15 ET. The “interfix” window (”E-L”) covers the period
between the ECB fix and the London fix at 11:00 ET. The final window spans the period after
the London fix (“post-L”) starting at 11:00 ET and ending at 17:00 ET. All times are measured
in Eastern Time, taking into account daylight saving time. Data are daily and cover the sample
period from January 1999 to December 2019 (5,264 daily observations). Returns are measured as
the log changes in the mid-quote for the respective currency (∆s). Thus, positive values imply
the foreign currency appreciates versus the U.S. dollar. The dollar portfolio “DOL” is an equal
weighted average of all nine currencies in our sample.


NOTE 2: Reversal Portfolios. We compute reversal portfolios around the “Tokyo” and a
“Europe” fixes for each day t by taking a long position in the U.S. dollar before the Tokyo and
ECB fixes that is reversed post-Tokyo and post-London fix, respectively:


            ∆sTokyo
              t     = −∆spre-T
                         t     + ∆spost−T
                                   t            and    ∆sEurope
                                                         t      = −∆spre−E
                                                                     t     + ∆stpost−L ,         (6)


   where ∆spre-T
           t     and ∆spost−T
                       t      are the returns for the pre- and post-Tokyo windows, and spre−E
                                                                                        t

and ∆spost−L
      t      are the returns for the pre-ECB and the post-London windows, respectively.
   For the Tokyo window the long position in the U.S. dollar is held from 17:00 ET to the Tokyo
fix at 9:55 local time (taking DST into account), and the short position is held from the Tokyo fix
until 2:00 ET. For the “Europe” window, the long position is held from 2:00 ET until the ECB fix
at 14:15 local time, and the short position is held starting with the London fix at 16:00 local time
until 17:00 ET. The three-hour period between the two fixes is dropped.




                                                  30

                    Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
                      pre-T      post-T     pre-E       E-L      post-L      CTC
            AUD        -2.84      1.85      -0.41      -0.05      1.93       0.47
                      (-8.24)    (3.94)    (-0.78)    (-0.11)    (3.75)     (0.44)
            CAD        -1.52      1.50      -0.77      -0.41      1.55        0.34
                      (-8.75)    (7.14)    (-1.94)    (-0.89)    (3.81)     (0.45)
            CHF        -1.24      1.25      -2.55       1.27      2.24       0.96
                      (-5.57)    (4.93)    (-4.19)    (2.55)     (5.19)     (1.00)
            EUR        -1.80      2.34      -3.53       0.63       2.73       0.36
                      (-8.84)    (9.29)    (-7.25)    (1.36)     (6.78)     (0.43)
            GBP        -1.89      1.27      -2.31       0.42       2.64       0.13
                      (-9.12)    (5.03)    (-4.65)    (1.03)     (7.43)     (0.17)
            JPY        -1.61      3.15      -1.04       0.62      -1.16      -0.04
                      (-5.88)    (8.22)    (-2.37)    (1.43)     (-3.03)    (-0.04)
            NOK        -1.94      2.95      -1.40      -2.01      2.14       -0.26
                      (-7.52)    (9.67)    (-2.20)    (-3.76)    (4.48)     (-0.25)
            NZD        -3.39      2.29      -0.35       0.56      1.81       0.92
                      (-8.42)    (4.00)    (-0.61)    (1.10)     (3.30)     (0.84)
            SEK        -1.80      2.16      -3.08      -0.05       2.60      -0.16
                      (-6.53)    (7.06)    (-4.95)    (-0.09)    (5.38)     (-0.15)
            DOL        -1.99      2.10      -1.68       0.14      1.84       0.40
                     (-11.69)    (9.19)    (-4.51)    (0.38)     (5.48)     (0.58)

    Table I. Intraday Returns and the Tokyo, ECB, and London Fixes
This table reports average returns in basis points for the intraday periods around the Tokyo,
ECB, and London fixes. t-statistics are reported in parentheses. See note 1 for the definitions
of the intraday periods. The sample period is January 1999 to December 2019. The data
are sourced from Refinitiv’s Tick History database.




                                              31

                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
                      pre-T      post-T     pre-E       E-L       post-L     CTC
            99-03      -1.64      2.48       -3.43      1.32       2.80      1.53
                      (-5.15)    (6.63)     (-4.84)    (1.98)     (4.57)    (1.19)
            04-09      -2.67      2.91       -1.50      -0.11      2.29       0.92
                      (-6.92)    (5.88)     (-1.80)    (-0.13)    (3.09)    (0.60)
            10-13      -3.49      2.31       -0.35      0.11       1.43      0.01
                      (-8.38)    (3.87)     (-0.40)    (0.14)     (1.80)    (0.01)
            14-19      -0.63      0.82       -1.25      -0.60      0.86      -0.80
                      (-2.64)    (2.25)     (-2.28)    (-1.02)    (1.62)    (-0.76)

          Table II. Intraday Dollar Portfolio Returns, Year-by-Year
This table reports average returns in basis points for the intraday periods around the Tokyo,
ECB, and London fixes for the dollar portfolio for a set of equally spaced sample periods.
See note 1 for the definitions of the intraday periods. t-statistics are reported in parentheses.
The sample period is January 1999 to December 2019. The data are sourced from Refinitiv’s
Tick History database.




                                               32

                 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
                           pre-T     post-T        pre-E     E-L      post-L      CTC
       RTH Spot            -1.58      1.88       -1.65      -0.04      1.20        -0.20
                          (-8.16)    (7.32)     (-3.73)    (-0.10)    (3.08)      (-0.25)
       RTH Forwards        -1.57      1.85       -1.61      -0.05      1.20        -0.19
                          (-8.12)    (7.18)     (-3.65)    (-0.12)    (3.08)      (-0.24)
       CME Futures         -1.46      1.80       -1.64       0.11      0.64        -0.56
                          (-8.94)    (9.37)     (-4.76)    (0.30)     (2.20)      (-0.90)
       ICE Futures         -1.27      1.37       -1.70       0.10      1.12        -0.38
                          (-3.55)    (4.40)     (-4.27)    (0.26)     (3.56)      (-0.52)
       RM VWAPS            -0.87      1.18       -1.10      -0.45      1.14        -0.09
                          (-6.12)    (5.63)     (-2.70)    (-1.16)    (3.35)      (-0.12)

           Table III. Intraday Returns Across Different Data Sets
This table reports average returns in basis points for different intraday periods around the
Tokyo, ECB and London fixes for the dollar portfolio – based on the Swiss franc, Canadian
dollar, euro, British pound, Japanese yen, and Swedish krona – using different data sets.
t-statistics are reported in parentheses. Intraday returns are computed from RTH forwards,
CME futures, intercontinental-ICE dollar index (DX) futures and VWAPs from Refinitiv
Matching (RM). See note 1 for the definitions of the intraday periods. The sample period is
June 2006 to December 2019.




                                              33

                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
                                        Panel A: Tokyo
                    Frac > 0    p-val    Mean         t-stat   Std Dev   Skew    Kurt
           AUD        0.56       0.00     4.69         8.03     42.36    -0.33   10.48
           CAD        0.57       0.00     3.02        10.68     20.52    0.77    16.67
           CHF        0.55       0.00     2.49         7.19     25.10    0.80    34.22
           EUR        0.57       0.00     4.14        12.60     23.85    0.25     8.67
           GBP        0.56       0.00     3.15         9.87     23.17    -0.24   38.30
           JPY        0.57       0.00     4.76        10.12     34.14    -0.05   15.35
           NOK        0.58       0.00     4.89        11.93     29.75    0.47    17.70
           NZD        0.56       0.00     5.68         9.29     44.37    0.02     7.40
           SEK        0.56       0.00     3.96        9.56      30.05    2.30    55.60
           DOL        0.59       0.00     4.09        14.46     20.50    0.02    8.46
                                        Panel B: Europe
                    Frac > 0    p-val    Mean         t-stat   Std Dev   Skew    Kurt
           AUD        0.51       0.04     2.34         3.20     53.11     0.14   10.41
           CAD        0.52       0.00    2.31          4.01     41.76     0.36    7.39
           CHF        0.54       0.00    4.79          6.81     51.09    -0.63   36.26
           EUR        0.56       0.00     6.26         9.95     45.61     0.01    6.87
           GBP        0.55       0.00    4.95          7.96     45.15     0.30    6.94
           JPY        0.51       0.35    -0.12        -0.21     42.66    -0.18    6.79
           NOK        0.52       0.00     3.54         4.51     56.96     0.03    6.01
           NZD        0.51       0.04    2.16          2.70     57.95     0.08    8.23
           SEK        0.55       0.00     5.68        7.25      56.81    -0.08    6.25
           DOL        0.55       0.00    3.51          7.03     36.23    0.01     6.61

              Table IV. Statistical Properties of Return Reversals
At the daily frequency, each panel reports the fraction of return observations that are positive
(“Frac > 0”), the p-value from a two-sided test of observing returns in one direction under the
null hypothesis of a random walk (“p-val”), as well as mean, standard deviation, skewness,
and kurtosis. Returns are expressed in basis points. Panels A and B report summary
statistics for the Tokyo and Europe fix reversal portfolios, respectively. See note 2 for the
definitions of the reversal portfolios. The sample period is January 1999 to December 2019.
The data is sourced from Refinitiv’s Tick History (RTH) database.




                                                 34

                 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
                             Tokyo                                   Europe
              JP H-Days       JP B-Days      p-val    JP H-Days       JP B-Days      p-val
     AUD         -1.16            5.05        0.00        4.90            2.19       0.82
                (-0.53)          (8.35)                  (1.69)          (2.89)
     CAD          1.67            3.10        0.13        4.00             2.21      0.78
                (1.37)          (10.67)                  (1.82)          (3.70)
     CHF          0.16            2.63        0.06        5.96            4.72       0.66
                (0.11)           (7.41)                  (2.08)          (6.50)
     EUR         2.26             4.26        0.08        8.94             6.09      0.83
                (1.67)          (12.57)                  (3.10)          (9.47)
     GBP         1.60             3.25        0.12        8.98             4.71      0.94
                (1.18)           (9.88)                  (3.42)          (7.34)
     JPY          1.31            4.97        0.01        1.56            -0.22      0.77
                (0.92)          (10.12)                  (0.67)          (-0.37)
     NOK         1.58             5.09        0.03        4.20             3.50      0.58
                (0.84)          (12.14)                  (1.32)          (4.32)
     NZD          0.51            5.00        0.02        5.99            1.92       0.90
                (0.19)           (9.54)                  (2.01)          (2.32)
     SEK          0.06            4.20        0.01        8.23             5.52      0.79
                (0.04)           (9.84)                  (2.53)          (6.84)
     DOL          0.89            4.28        0.00        5.82            3.37       0.88
                (0.76)          (14.71)                  (2.87)          (6.54)

     Table V. Reversal Returns: Japanese Holidays and Business Days
The table reports average reversal returns in basis points, i.e. taking a short position in
foreign currencies in the pre-fix period, and a long position in foreign currencies in the post-
fix period, on Japanese holidays (“JP H-Days”, 304 days) and business days (“JP B-Days”,
4,958 days). The columns “p-val” report the p-value from a one-sided t-test against the
alternative hypothesis that returns on JP H-Days are smaller than reversal returns on JP
B-Days (i.e. HA : JP H-Days < JP B-Days) around the Tokyo or Europe fix. The sample
period is January 1999 to December 2019. The data is sourced from Refinitiv’s Tick History
(RTH) database.




                                               35

                 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
                    Panel A: February 1986 - December 1998
                             07:45-08:00     08:00-08:15     08:15-08:30
                    EUR         -0.05            0.50            0.22
                               (-0.47)          (3.89)          (1.47)
                    GBP         0.12             0.21            0.05
                               (1.12)           (1.74)          (0.34)
                    JPY          0.25            0.42            0.33
                               (1.93)           (2.45)          (2.24)
                    Panel B: January 2000 - June 2016
                             07:45-08:00     08:00-08:15     08:15-08:30
                    EUR         -0.61            -0.89           0.96
                               (-4.76)          (-7.31)         (7.53)
                    GBP         -0.38            -0.19           0.50
                               (-3.61)          (-1.74)         (4.19)
                    JPY         -0.14            -0.32           0.20
                               (-1.39)          (-2.84)         (1.53)
                    Panel C: July 2016 - December 2019
                             07:45-08:00     08:00-08:15     08:15-08:30
                    EUR         -1.33            1.04            -0.07
                               (-6.08)          (5.93)          (-0.44)
                    GBP         -0.33            0.97            -0.50
                               (-1.48)          (3.69)          (-2.21)
                    JPY         -0.36            0.51            -0.38
                               (-2.34)          (3.27)          (-1.87)

               Table VI. Introduction and Changes to ECB Fix
The table reports 15-minute returns in basis points before and after the ECB fix at 8:15 a.m.
Panel A refers to the period February 1986 to December 1998, comprising the years before
the introduction of the ECB Fix. Panel B refers to the period January 2000 to June 2016
when the ECB fix reference rates were published at 8:15 a.m., and Panel C refers to the
sample July 2016 to December 2019 when the publication of reference rates were postponed
to align with the London fix. Numbers in parentheses show t-statistics. The data are from
Olsen Financial Technologies and Refinitiv Tick History (RTH).




                                              36

                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
                                       AUD                              GBP
                            pre-E      pre-L        post-L   pre-E      pre-L     post-L
      Fraction positive      0.48       0.47         0.52      0.48      0.48      0.54
      Probability           0.01        0.00          0.01     0.02      0.04       0.00
      Mean                  -7.97     -26.47         2.52      2.35     -3.39      22.55
      t-stat               (-1.87)    (-4.26)       (0.71)   (0.30)    (-0.33)    (5.04)
      Median               -10.26     -19.49         6.37    -13.12    -20.57      18.64
      z-stat               (-2.77)    (-3.42)       (2.50)   (-2.26)   (-2.02)    (4.82)
      Std. Dev.            248.65     363.55        208.63   450.71    592.74     261.51
      Skewness              -0.21      -0.23         -0.46     0.61      0.36      0.18
      Kurtosis              6.34        5.34          9.40    10.52     7.54       8.02

   Table VII. Summary Statistics: Order Flow Around European Fixes
At the daily frequency, each Panel reports the fraction of order flow observations that are
positive, the p-value from a two-sided test of observing order flow in one direction under
the null hypothesis of a random walk, as well as mean, median, z-score, standard deviation,
skewness, and kurtosis. The z-score refers to a non-parametric test assessing if the median
is different from zero. Order flow is defined as buyer- minus seller-initiated volume and
measured in million U.S. dollars. See note 1 for the definitions of the intraday periods. The
sample period are June 2006 to December 2019. Data is sourced from Refinitiv’s Matching
(RM) trading platform.




                                               37

                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
                                     Panel A: AUD
                    Avg. DD             Avg. FXV                  Avg. Returns
                FXVL       FXVH      FXVL      FXVH      FXVL      FXVH           H-L
       DDL      217.19     253.30     6.51      27.20    -14.60    -24.89     -10.29
       DDM       -11.61     -8.31     5.38      19.88     0.62       2.56       1.94
       DDH      -235.35   -277.69     6.14      19.20    15.99      29.96      13.97
       H-L                                               30.59     54.85
                                      Panel B: GBP
                    Avg. DD             Avg. FXV                  Avg. Returns
                FXVL       FXVH      FXVL      FXVH      FXVL      FXVH           H-L
       DDL      440.79     417.79     3.32      13.30    -11.89    -23.94     -12.05
       DDM       -15.62    -13.05     3.42      10.84     2.58       6.80      4.22
       DDH      -423.64   -418.03     3.54      10.82    22.12      29.40      7.29
       H-L                                               34.01     53.35

        Table VIII. Double Sorts: Dollar Demand and FX Volatility
This table reports returns for reversal strategies around the European fixes for AUD and
GBP, when sorted by dollar demand during the European pre-fix (DD) hours and FX volatil-
ity (FXV) over the previous trading day. Daily reversal returns are first sorted into tertiary
portfolios (low, medium, high) according to dollar demand during the European pre-fix trad-
ing hours, and then within each set, sorted into high and low portfolios according to the level
of FX volatility. Average dollar demand and average annualized FX volatility in each state
are reported in the first four columns. Average reversal returns are expressed in basis points.
Dollar demand refers to total order flow during the pre-fix window and is expressed in million
U.S. dollar. FXV is measured as the sum of squared 1-minute returns over the previous day
and is expressed in annualized percentage. The row (column) “H-L” shows the difference
between portfolio returns in the high and low states, and values that are significantly dif-
ferent (at least at the 5% confidence level) are marked in bold. The sample period is 2006
to 2019. The data are from Refinitiv’s Tick History (RTH) and Reuter’s Matching (RM)
databases. See note 2 for the definition of reversal strategies.




                                              38

                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
                                          AUD                   GBP
                    α               1.22        1.03      0.91           0.87
                                   (2.37)      (1.99)    (2.13)         (2.05)
                    OFpreECB        -7.22                 -3.54
                                   (-2.79)               (-3.78)
                    OFpreLON                   -9.28                 -4.16
                                              (-5.88)               (-5.67)
                    OFpost         106.26     108.75      46.86      47.66
                                   (24.40)    (24.95)    (18.09)    (18.43)
                    adj-R2          0.30       0.30        0.21       0.22
                    Obs             3,406      3,406      3,406      3,406

      Table IX. Return Reversal Regressions Around European Fixes
This table reports results referring to the regression model

                             ∆spost
                               t    = α + β1 OFtpre + β2 OFtpost + εt

where ∆spost
           t   denote log spot returns, based on volume-weighted average prices (VWAP),
during the post-fix hours for the Australian dollar (AU D) or the British pound (GBP ) on
day t, and OFtpreECB and OFtpreLON measure the order flow in the pre-fix hours of the
European fixes. OFtpost is order flow during the post-fix hours. Returns are measured in
basis points. Order flow is defined as buyer minus seller-initiated volume and is measured in
billion U.S. dollar. See note 1 for the definitions of the intraday periods. The sample period is
June 2006 to December 2019. Parentheses report t-statistics based on Newey-West adjusted
standard errors. All data are sourced from Refinitiv’s Matching (RM) trading platform.




                                               39

                 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
                                       AUD                           GBP
                              LP         LD        p-val    LP         LD         p-val
         ∆spre−E              0.60      -4.51      0.00     1.89      -0.54       0.01
                             (0.87)    (-6.59)             (2.86)    (-0.81)
         ∆spre−L              1.23      -3.70      0.00     2.15      -0.28       0.04
                             (1.35)    (-4.10)             (2.55)    (-0.34)
         ∆spost−L             1.85      -2.83      0.00     2.06      -0.44       0.00
                             (2.68)    (-4.14)             (4.61)    (-0.98)
         ∆spre−E+post−L       2.45      -7.34      0.00     3.95      -0.98       0.00
                             (2.55)    (-7.72)             (4.83)    (-1.19)
         ∆spre−L+post−L       3.08      -6.53      0.00     4.21      -0.73       0.00
                             (2.74)    (-5.86)             (4.32)    (-0.74)

   Table X. Trading Venues, Reversal Portfolios and Transaction Costs
This table reports returns accounting for transaction costs for a liquidity provider (LP)
that sources foreign currency at the prevalent bid at the beginning of the pre-fix period in
the dealer-to-dealer market and provides foreign currency at the bid in the dealer-to-client
market at the fix. The column LD refers to a liquidity demander that buys foreign currency
at the beginning of the pre-fix period in the customer-to-dealer market and sells at the fix
in the same market segment. In the post-fix period, these trades are reversed. The column
“p-val” shows a p-value from a two-sided t-tests comparing the average returns between
liquidity demander and provider. The post-L trade is closed at 16:00 due to low liquidity
on Reuter’s platforms. Returns are measured in basis points. Numbers in parentheses show
t-statistics. The sample period is 2006 to 2019. The data are from Refinitiv’s Tick History
(RTH) and Reuter’s Matching (RM) databases. See note 2 for the definition of reversal
strategies.




                                              40

                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
                                                        IX.      Figures




                        2


                        1                     Tokyo Fix         ECB Fix




 cum log return (bps)
                        0


                        -1
                                                                                                London Fix
                        -2
                                                                                                      EUR
                                                                                                      GBP
                        -3                                                                            JPY
                             17
                             18
                             19
                             20
                             21
                             22
                             23
                             00
                             01
                             02
                             03
                             04
                             05
                             06
                             07
                             08
                             09
                             10
                             11
                             12
                             13
                             14
                             15
                             16
                             17
                                                                time (ET)
                             Figure 2. Cumulative 5-min Returns for EUR, GBP, and JPY
This figure displays cumulative average 5-min returns (∆s) over the course of a trading
day for the EUR (blue), GBP (green), and JPY (red), respectively. An increase means the
foreign currency appreciates against the U.S. dollar. The three black dashed lines at 20:55,
8:15, and 11:00 refer to the Tokyo fix, the ECB fix and the London fix, respectively. Returns
are expressed in basis points. The time is measured in Eastern Time (ET). The sample
period is January 1999 to December 2019.




                                                                 41

                                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
                                                                                                            1
                           0.5
                                                                                                            0.5

                             0                                                                              0




 hourly log return (bps)                                                                                           cum log return (bps)
                                                                                                            -0.5
                           -0.5
                                                                                                            -1

                            -1                                                                              -1.5

                                                                                                            -2
                           -1.5
                                                                                                            -2.5

                            -2                                                                              -3
                                  17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
                                                                   time (ET)
                                    Figure 3. Intraday Returns Dynamics: Dollar Portfolio
This figure displays cumulative average 5-min returns (∆s) for the dollar portfolio over the
course of a trading day. An increase means the basket of foreign currencies appreciates
against the U.S. dollar. The three black dashed lines at 20:55, 8:15, and 11:00 refer to the
Tokyo, the ECB, and the London fixes, respectively. Returns are expressed in basis points.
The time is measured in Eastern Time (ET). The sample period is January 1999 to December
2019.




                                                                       42

                                         Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
                             14                                                                                                                                                                                                                      30
                                                    EUR                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EUR
                                                    GBP                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GBP                                                                                                                                                         26.89
                                                                                                                                                                                                                12.26
                             12                     JPY                                                                                                                                                                                                                     JPY
                                                    DOL                                                                                                                                                                                              25                     DOL


                             10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.60

  return on                      8                                                                                                                                                                                        return on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     15

$1 investment                                                                                                                                                                                                           $1 investment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13.54
                                 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.25

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10
                                 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6.35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5
                                 2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.94
                                 0                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0

                                     1999            2001           2003           2005           2007            2009            2011            2013            2015            2017            2019                                                       1999            2001           2003           2005           2007            2009            2011            2013            2015            2017            2019


                                                     (a) Total Return Index: Tokyo Fix                                                                                                                                                                                      (b) Total Return Index: Europe Fix

                           30                                                                                                                                                                                                                      30


                           25                                                                                                                                                                                                                      25


                           20                                                                                                                                                                                                                      20




total return by year (%)                                                                                                                                                                                                total return by year (%)
                           15                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15


                           10                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10


                            5                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5


                            0                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0


                            -5                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -5

                                                   pre-T + post-T                                                                                                                                                                                                          pre-E+post-L
                           -10                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -10

                                            1999    2000    2001   2002    2003   2004    2005   2006    2007   2008     2009   2010     2011   2012     2013   2014     2015   2016     2017   2018     2019                                                       1999    2000    2001   2002    2003   2004    2005   2006    2007   2008     2009   2010     2011   2012     2013   2014     2015   2016     2017   2018     2019

                                                                   (c) DOL Around Tokyo Fix                                                                                                                                                                                                (d) DOL Around Europe Fix

                                                         Figure 4.
                            Total Return Indices and Year-By-Year Performance: Trading the Vs
                            The figures show the performance of a trading strategy around the Tokyo and Europe fixes
                            where an investor takes a long-position in the U.S. dollar during the pre-fix and a short-
                            position during the post-fix. The top panels show the total return indices for the three major
                            currencies (EUR, GBP, JPY) and the dollar portfolio (DOL) with an initial investment of
                            one U.S. dollar. The bottom panels show the total returns split year by year for the dollar
                            portfolio. The sample period is January 1999 to December 2019.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       43

                                                                                                 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
                                   5

                                   4                                                    Tokyo Fix reversal

                                   3




           reversal retuns (bps)
                                   2

                                   1

                                   0

                                   -1

                                   -2

                                   -3
                                               -3h         -2h         -1h                      +1h         +2h     +3h         +4h
                                                                                  0

                                                                              (a) Tokyo Fix


                                   5

                                   4

                                   3




           reversal retuns (bps)
                                                                                                Europe Fix reversal

                                   2

                                   1

                                   0

                                   -1

                                   -2

                                   -3
                                              -5h    -4h         -3h    -2h      -1h                  +1h   +2h   +3h     +4h     +5h
                                                                                            0

                                                                             (b) Europe Fix

           Figure 5. Reversal Returns: Alternative Reversal Times
The figure shows reversal returns with different reversal times during the main Tokyo (Panel
a)) and European (Panel b)) trading hours. Returns are measured in basis points (y-axis).
The x-axis shows the timing of the reversal point relative to the Tokyo and the European
fixes, respectively (indicated by the value “0” and marked by the red bar). Values to the left
(right) of the red bars indicate the point in time of the reversal occurs earlier (later) than
the fix. See note 2 for the definitions of the reversal returns. The sample period is January
1999 to December 2019.



                                                                                       44

                                        Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
                                            1.5

                                              1              Tokyo Fix                Tokyo Fix




                     cum log return (bps)
                                                             (No DST)                   (DST)
                                            0.5

                                              0

                                            -0.5

                                             -1

                                            -1.5
                                                                                                            DST
                                                                                                            No DST
                                             -2
                                                   17   18        19     20      21       22      23   00   01       02
                                                                                time (ET)
                                                                              (a) EUR


                                            1.5

                                              1              Tokyo Fix                Tokyo Fix




                     cum log return (bps)
                                                             (No DST)                   (DST)
                                            0.5

                                              0

                                            -0.5

                                             -1

                                            -1.5
                                                                                                            DST
                                                                                                            No DST
                                             -2
                                                   17   18        19     20      21       22      23   00   01       02
                                                                                time (ET)
                                                                              (b) GBP


                                            1.5

                                              1              Tokyo Fix                Tokyo Fix




                     cum log return (bps)
                                                             (No DST)                   (DST)
                                            0.5

                                              0

                                            -0.5

                                             -1

                                            -1.5
                                                                                                            DST
                                                                                                            No DST
                                             -2
                                                   17   18        19     20      21       22      23   00   01       02
                                                                                time (ET)
                                                                              (c) JPY

 Figure 6. Intraday Returns Dynamics: Daylight Savings Time Changes
This figure displays cumulative average 5-min returns (∆s), expressed in basis points, for
EUR (Panel a)), GBP (Panel b)), and JPY (Panel c)) during the main trading hours in
Japan on days when the time zone in New York is Eastern Daylight Saving Time (DST,
dotted line) and Eastern Standard time (No DST, solid line). An increase means foreign
currencies appreciate against the U.S. dollar. The two dashed lines at 19:55 and 20:55 refer
to the time of the Tokyo fix in each time zones. The sample period is January 1999 to
December 2019.


                                                                                45

                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
                                               2

                                                                          ECB Fix
                                               1




                        cum log return (bps)
                                               0
                                                                                                                  London Fix

                                               -1


                                               -2


                                               -3                                                                      Feb 1986 - Dec 1993
                                                                                                                       Jan 1999 - Dec 2019

                                                    02       03    04    05    06    07    08    09    10    11   12   13   14   15   16     17
                                                                                                time (ET)
                                                                                          (a) EUR

                                                    2

                                               1.5

                                                    1                         ECB Fix




                        cum log return (bps)
                                               0.5

                                                    0

                                               -0.5                                                               London Fix

                                                -1

                                               -1.5
                                                                                                                       Feb 1986 - Dec 1993
                                                -2                                                                     Jan 1999 - Dec 2019

                                                        02    03    04    05    06    07    08    09   10    11   12   13   14   15   16     17
                                                                                                 time (ET)

                                                                                          (b) GBP

                                               1.5


                                                    1




                        cum log return (bps)
                                                                              ECB Fix
                                               0.5


                                                    0


                                               -0.5

                                                                                                                  London Fix
                                                -1
                                                                                                                       Feb 1986 - Dec 1993
                                                                                                                       Jan 1999 - Dec 2019
                                               -1.5

                                                        02    03    04    05    06    07    08    09   10    11   12   13   14   15   16     17
                                                                                                 time (ET)

                                                                                           (c) JPY

 Figure 7. Intraday Returns Dynamics: Introduction of the London Fix
This figure displays cumulative average 5-min returns (∆s), expressed in basis points, for
EUR (Panel a)), GBP (Panel b)), and JPY (Panel c)) over the entire trading day. The red
dotted line refers to the period February 1986 to December 1993 before the London fix was
introduced. The blue line refers to the period January 1999 to December 2019. Data are
sourced from Olsen Financial Technologies for the years prior to 1999, while data are sourced
from RTH for the years from 1999 onwards. The two dashed vertical lines refer to the ECB
fix (8:15) and the London fix (11:00) Eastern time.




                                                                                                46

                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
                                                                                                                                  Jul 1980 - Dec 1993                  3
                                   3                                                                                              Jan 1999 - Dec 2017




 relative quote submissions (%)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   London Fix
                                                                                                London Fix
                                                                                                                                                                  2.5
                                  2.5

                                                                                                                                                                       2
                                   2


                                  1.5                                                                                                                             1.5


                                   1                                                                                                                                   1


                                  0.5                                                                                                                             0.5


                                        8:35              9:30                                                                                                             8:35              9:30               10:30                11:30                 12:30             13:30             14:30
                                                                             10:30                11:30                 12:30               13:30             14:30
                                                                                            time (ET)                                                                                                                          time (ET)
                                                                                     (a) GBP                                                                                                                              (b) JPY




                                                                                                                                 Jul 1980 - Dec 1993
                                                                                                                                                                  2.2




 relative quote submissions (%)
                                  2.2                                                                                            Jan 1995 - Dec 1998
                                                                                                                                 Jan 1999 - May 2006
                                                                                                                                 June 2006 - Dec 2017                  2
                                   2

                                                                                                                                                                  1.8
                                  1.8

                                  1.6                                                                                                                             1.6


                                  1.4                                                                                                                             1.4


                                  1.2                                                                                                                             1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      London Fix
                                                                                                                                                                           -30min   -25min    -20min   -15min    -10min    -5min                   +5min   +10min   +15min   +20min   +25min   +30min
                                                                                                   London Fix
                                        -30min   -25min    -20min   -15min    -10min    -5min                   +5min   +10min     +15min   +20min   +25min   +30min



                                                                                       (c) GBP                                                                                                                            (d) JPY

                                             Figure 8. Changes in Quoting Activity Around the London Fix
The figure shows the number of quote updates in each 5-minute interval in currency futures
traded on the CME relative to the daily total number of submitted quotes between 8:30 and
14:30 (ET) for the currencies GBP and JPY. Panel a) and b) (top row) contrast futures
market activity in the period July 1980 to December 1993 (dotted red line) with the period
January 1999 to December 2017 (solid blue line). Panel c) and d) (bottom row) show the
quoting activity 30-minutes before and after the London fix during the period July 1980 to
December 1993 (red dotted line), between January 1995 to December 1998 (solid green line),
between January 1999 to May 2006 (solid purple line), and June 2006 to December 2017
(solid black line). Data are from TickHistory.




                                                                                                                                                              47

                                                                        Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
17:00 - 18:00   1.03        0.68      0.42      0.15       0.54      0.48      0.21      1.66    0.21
18:00 - 19:00   1.61        0.60      0.33      0.21       0.53      0.86      0.27      2.21    0.24
19:00 - 20:00   3.35        0.86      0.88      0.38       0.85      2.13      0.40      3.25    0.38
20:00 - 21:00   4.71        1.21      1.38      0.61       1.30      4.25      0.58      4.34    0.48
21:00 - 22:00   5.15        1.09      0.98      0.62       1.11      3.40      0.62      4.51    0.54
22:00 - 23:00   3.75        0.91      0.98      0.54       0.91      2.34      0.53      3.60    0.52
23:00 - 00:00   3.00        0.71      0.66      0.47       0.77      2.01      0.47      2.90    0.51
00:00 - 01:00   2.93        0.67      1.00      0.51       0.81      2.08      0.40      2.60    0.40
01:00 - 02:00   3.44        1.01      1.38      1.18       1.38      3.00      0.77      2.95    0.92
02:00 - 03:00   5.38        2.39      4.16      4.94       4.27      5.15      3.95      5.05    4.24
03:00 - 04:00   6.06        3.46      7.17      8.73       6.61      6.15      6.80      5.90    8.64
04:00 - 05:00   5.23        3.25      6.56      8.69       8.35      5.42      7.59      5.23    7.75
05:00 - 06:00   4.33        3.01      6.07      7.73       6.80      4.27      6.09      4.31    7.30
06:00 - 07:00   3.70        3.22      5.42      6.74       6.07      3.67      5.54      3.72    5.56
07:00 - 08:00   3.94        4.62      6.17      7.23       6.46      4.43      6.19      4.11    6.65
08:00 - 09:00   7.04        10.95     10.47     12.25      9.16      8.98      9.22      6.89    8.55
09:00 - 10:00   7.40        11.65     10.48     11.66      9.30      8.97      12.27     7.51    11.32
10:00 - 11:00   9.63        15.61     11.29     11.69      12.29     10.47     14.64     10.11   12.62
11:00 - 12:00   6.71        11.66     8.69      6.70       9.20      7.17      9.38      6.89    8.38
12:00 - 13:00   3.23        6.52      5.14      3.18       4.54      4.25      4.49      3.30    4.64
13:00 - 14:00   2.27        4.56      3.36      1.97       2.93      3.29      3.31      2.14    3.76
14:00 - 15:00   2.80        4.94      3.16      1.95       2.78      3.27      2.65      2.60    2.78
15:00 - 16:00   2.07        3.65      2.28      1.16       1.87      2.39      2.54      2.28    2.45
16:00 - 17:00   1.24        2.77      1.57      0.69       1.17      1.55      1.07      1.94    1.16

                 D          AD         H  F       R        BP       JP            K      ZD       K
                AU          C         C         EU         G           Y       O         N       SE
                                                                              N

                Figure 9. Relative Trading Volume Around the Clock
    The figure displays the average hourly trading volume over the course of the trading day
    relative to daily total trading volume expressed in percent. The values in each column add
    up to 100. The sample period is June 2006 to December 2019. Data are from Refinitiv’s
    Matching (RM) trading platform.




                                                      48

                       Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
                                         2

                                       1.5




           normalized order flow (%)
                                         1

                                       0.5

                                         0

                                       -0.5

                                        -1

                                       -1.5
                                              02   03   04   05   06   07   08    09   10    11   12   13   14   15   16   17
                                                                                 time (ET)
                                                                            (a) AUD

                                         2

                                       1.5




           normalized order flow (%)
                                         1

                                       0.5

                                         0

                                       -0.5

                                        -1

                                       -1.5
                                              02   03   04   05   06   07   08    09   10    11   12   13   14   15   16   17
                                                                                 time (ET)
                                                                            (b) GBP

                                              Figure 10. Normalized Order Flow Dynamics
The figures show the average normalized order flow dynamics in every hourly interval over
the course of the main trading hours in Europe and the United States for the Australian
dollar and the British pound. Normalized order flow is defined as buyer- minus seller-initiated
traded volume relative to total trading volume. The sample period is June 2006 to December
2019. Data are from Refinitiv’s Matching (RM) trading platform.




                                                                                 49

                                          Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
                                           References

Andrade, S. C., C. Chang, and M. S. Seasholes (2008): “Trading Imbalances, Predictable
  Reversals, and Cross-Stock Price Pressure,” Journal of Financial Economics, 88(2), 406–423.

BIS (2019): “Triennial Central Bank Survey–Foreign Exchange Turnover in April 2019,” Discussion
  paper, Bank for International Settlements.

Bjønnes, G. H., C. L. Osler, and D. Rime (2021): “Price Discovery in Two-Tier Markets,”
  International Journal of Finance and Economics, 26(2), 3109–3133.

Breedon, F., and A. Ranaldo (2013): “Intraday Patterns in FX Returns and Order Flow,”
  Journal of Money, Credit and Banking, 45(5), 953–965.

Breedon, F., and P. Vitale (2010): “An Empirical Study of Portfolio-Balance and Information
  Effects of Order Flow on Exchange Rates,” Journal of International Money and Finance, 29(3),
  504–524.

Brunnermeier, M., S. Nagel, and L. H. Pedersen (2009): “Carry Trades and Currency
  Crashes,” NBER Macroeconomics Annual 2008, 23, 313–347.

Campbell, J. Y., S. J. Grossman, and J. Wang (1993): “Trading Volume and Serial Corre-
  lation in Stock Returns,” Quarterly Journal of Economics, 108(4), 905–939.

Choi, J., O. Shachar, and S. S. Shin (2019): “Dealer Liquidity Provision and the Breakdown
  of the Law of One Price: Evidence From the CDS–Bond Basis,” Management Science, 65(9),
  4100–4122.

Cornett, M. M., T. V. Schwarz, and A. C. Szakmary (1995): “Seasonalities and Intraday
  Return Patterns in the Foreign Currency Futures Market,” Journal of Banking and Finance,
  19(5), 843–869.

Coval, J., and E. Stafford (2007): “Asset Fire Sales (and Purchases) in Equity Markets,”
  Journal of Financial Economics, 86(2), 479–512.

Da, Z., P. Gao, and R. Jagannathan (2011): “Impatient Trading, Liquidity Provision, and
  Stock Selection by Mutual Funds,” The Review of Financial Studies, 24(3), 675–720.




                                                  50

                    Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
Duffie, D. (2010): “Presidential Address: Asset Price Dynamics with Slow-Moving Capital,” The
  Journal of Finance, 65(4), 1237–1267.

Duffie, D., P. Dworczak, and H. Zhu (2017): “Benchmarks in Search Markets,” The Journal
  of Finance, 72(5), 1983–2044.

ECB (2019): “Framework for the Euro Foreign Exchange Reference Rates,” Discussion paper,
  European Central Bank.

Evans, M. (2018): “Forex Trading and the WMR Fix,” Journal of Banking and Finance, 87,
  233–247.

Evans, M. D., P. O’Neill, D. Rime, and J. Saakvitne (2020): “Forex Trading and the WMR
  Fix: Assessing the Effects of Rigging and Reform,” Working Paper, Georgetown University.

Evans, M. D. D., and R. K. Lyons (2002): “Order Flow and Exchange Rate Dynamics,” Journal
  of Political Economy, 110(1), 170–180.

FSB (2014): “Foreign Exchange Benchmarks,” Financial Stability Board, Final Report.

Grossman, S. J., and M. H. Miller (1988): “Liquidity and Market Structure,” The Journal of
  Finance, 43(3), 617–633.

Heston, S. L., R. A. Korajczyk, and R. Sadka (2010): “Intraday Patterns in the Cross-
  Section of Stock Returns,” The Journal of Finance, 65(4), 1369–1407.

Ito, T., and M. Yamada (2016): “Puzzles in the Forex Tokyo “Fixing”: Order Imbalances and
  Biased Pricing by Banks,” Discussion paper, Center on Japanese Economy and Business, No.
  352.

         (2017): “Puzzles in the Tokyo Fixing in the Forex Market: Order Imbalances and Bank
  Pricing,” Journal of International Economics, 109, 214–234.

Jiang, Z., A. Krishnamurthy, and H. Lustig (2021): “Foreign Safe Asset Demand and the
  Dollar Exchange Rate,” The Journal of Finance, 76(3), 1049–1089.

Jylhä, P., K. Rinne, and M. Suominen (2014): “Do Hedge Funds Supply or Demand Liquid-
  ity?,” Review of Finance, 18(4), 1259–1298.




                                                51

                  Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
Lou, D., C. Polk, and S. Skouras (2017): “A Tug of War: Overnight Versus Intraday Expected
  Returns,” Working Paper, London School of Economics.

Melvin, M., and J. Prins (2015): “Equity Hedging and Exchange Rates at the London 4 p.m.
  Fix,” Journal of Financial Markets, 22, 50–72.

Nagel, S. (2012): “Evaporating Liquidity,” The Review of Financial Studies, 25(7), 2005–2039.

Osler, C., and A. Turnbull (2020): “Dealer Trading at the Fix,” Working Paper, Brandeis
  International Business School.

Ranaldo, A. (2009): “Segmentation and Time-of-Day Patterns in Foreign Exchange Markets,”
  Journal of Banking and Finance, 33, 2199–2206.

Rinne, K., and M. Suominen (2016): “Short-Term Reversals, Returns to Liquidity Provision
  and the Costs of Immediacy,” SSRN abstract N. 1537923.

Stoll, H. R. (1978): “The Supply of Dealer Services in Securities Markets,” The Journal of
  Finance, 33(4), 1133–1151.

Wasserfallen, W. (1989): “Flexible Exchange Rates: A Closer Look,” Journal of Monetary
  Economics, 23, 511–521.




                                                 52

                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521370
