Performance of Selected Pre-harvest and Post-harvest
Corn and Soybean Marketing Strategies vs. Alternative
                       Market Benchmarks
                                   by

  E. Neal Blue, Robert N. Wisner, and E. Dean Baldwin




Suggested citation format:

Blue, E. N., R. N. Wisner, and E. D. Baldwin. 2004. “Performance of
Selected Pre-harvest and Post-harvest Corn and Soybean Marketing
Strategies vs. Alternative Market Benchmarks.” Proceedings of the NCR-134
Conference on Applied Commodity Price Analysis, Forecasting, and Market
Risk Management. St. Louis, MO. [http://www.farmdoc.uiuc.edu/nccc134].
                   Performance of Selected Pre-harvest and Post-harvest
                              Corn and Soybean Marketing
                      Strategies vs. Alternative Market Benchmarks



                                        E. Neal Blue

                                     Robert N. Wisner

                                             and

                                      E. Dean Baldwin*




            Paper presented at the NC134 Conference on Applied Commodity Price
                    Analysis, Forecasting, and Market Risk Management
                            St. Louis, Missouri, April 19-20, 2004




Neal Blue, private consultant, Columbus, Ohio; Robert N. Wisner, University Professor, Iowa
State University; E. Dean Baldwin, Professor Emeritus, Ohio State University
   Performance of Selected Pre-harvest and Post-harvest Corn and Soybean Marketing
                     Strategies vs. Alternative Market Benchmarks


                                            Introduction

With volatile grain markets, rapidly increasing average size of U.S. cash grain farms, and narrow
profit margins due to rising costs for land and other inputs, grain producers have become
increasingly interested in expanding their marketing window by utilizing pre-harvest pricing
opportunities including crop and revenue insurances (Patrick et al., 1998). The widespread use
of harvest price revenue insurance provides a tool for maintaining a long physical commodity
position that matches a short futures pre-harvest pricing position. If yields are low, this tool
provides for replacement of lost bushels at the harvest value. With very generous government
subsidies, it has made pre-harvest pricing much more feasible than in past years. The most
common percent of actual proven yield history insured by Iowa farmers with these insurance
tools in recent years has been 75%. Additionally, the use of market advisory services has
become widespread among farmers. Most such services make extensive use of
recommendations for pre-harvest pricing.

Some previous studies have noted that futures market behavior for corn and soybeans over an
extended period of years frequently provided better pre-harvest pricing opportunities than are
available at harvest (see Wisner, Blue, and Baldwin, 1998; O’Brien, 2000). Recent work on
seasonality of commodity futures also shows evidence of recurring price patterns, which is
reported in the literature review section of this paper. Others have indicated that the results are
sensitive to the time period selected for study and the structure of the analytical model (e.g.,
Zulauf and Irwin, 1998). By expanding the marketing window to include pre-harvest as well as
post-harvest pricing opportunities, farmers typically have access to a wider range of prices than
are available if only post-harvest opportunities are considered. Farmers regularly commit fixed
costs for producing grain more than a year in advance of harvest, and commit variable costs such
as fertilizer, seed, chemicals, and fuel six to eight months or more before harvest. To do so
without knowing what price will be received for the crop is, in essence, speculation. Expanding
the marketing window increases the likelihood that farmers will find opportunities to market
sizeable portions of their crops at prices that more than cover the producer’s minimum cash
outflow for production.

Purpose: To Update Earlier Work

This study was undertaken to update earlier work by the authors that analyzed selected pre-
harvest pricing strategies utilizing options markets to establish a price floor for part of the crop in
the spring, with additional pricing done by use of short hedges in early summer. The timing of
implementing these strategies was moved back to late February if the previous year’s U.S. crop
was a weather-induced short crop. A weather-induced short crop as opposed to a government
program induced short crop was defined as one in which U.S. production fell below the previous
year’s use and the U.S. average yield was at least 6% below a trend yield. Previous work by the
authors indicated that selected pre-harvest strategies applied to actual farms in Iowa and Ohio
over the 1985-1998 time period generated net returns well above those from a naïve strategy of



                                                                                                     2
systematically selling at harvest, with t-tests indicating statistical significance at the 5% level.
Similar results were observed when the time period was extended to 2001.

The results from this study may explain the observed increase in the use of forward pricing by
farmers, the emergence of new pre-harvest marketing tools focusing on late winter and spring
pricing opportunities, and the emphasis on pre-harvest pricing by market advisory services
(Irwin et al., 2003). Results reported here suggest that over the past 18 to 29 years, farmers have
had the potential to reap substantial economic benefits from improving both their pre-harvest and
post-harvest marketing skills.

Inconsistency with Efficient Market Hypothesis

While these patterns are intuitively inconsistent with the efficient market hypothesis (EMH),
empirical data nevertheless show their existence. The observed patterns raise additional
questions to be explored about market behavior, some of which have been examined in financial
literature that is reviewed below (Bessembinder, 1992; Considine and Larson, 2001; De Roon,
Nijman, and Veld, 2000; Rock, 1991). A price pattern motivating the authors to undertake this
study is shown in Figure 1. The chart shows the weekly average closing Thursday December
corn futures price for all years since 1975, from the end of December before harvest through
early December after harvest. If the markets were closed on Thursday, the closing price for the
previous business day was used. The period shown in the chart began with 1975 to avoid
disruptive market behavior in the previous three years, brought about in part by an extreme
depreciation in the value of the U.S. dollar in world currency markets and a shift from
domestically focused grain markets to a global market focus. As further support for starting the
study with the year, 1975, Milonas (1991, p.336.) showed one-month price variability of CBOT
corn, wheat, soybean, soybean meal, and soybean oil futures prices by year from 1966 through
1986. Corn price variability in each of the years 1973 and 1974 was about seven times as large
as in preceding years and about six times as large as in following years. For wheat, soybeans,
and soybean products, the increases in price variability were even larger, but declined
dramatically in the later years.

In Figure 1, note that in 29 years of data, the weekly average December futures price is relatively
high from the start of the year until June, and then declines into the harvest season. Using the
shorter time period from 1985 (start-up of options markets) through 2003, the pattern is similar,
but shows an even more pronounced decline in mid-summer as uncertainty about crop prospects
diminishes. Table 1 shows the average prices and standard deviation of December futures prices
for selected weeks relating to the strategies studied here over the 29-year period versus the
standard deviation for futures prices in early November.

Planting-time prices for both periods are significantly different from harvest prices at the 6%
probability level, using a paired sample, two-tail t-test. Note that the average pre-harvest price
differences versus harvest prices shown above are economically significant to producers. For a
producer with 850 acres of corn yielding 150 bushels per acre, with 60% priced at planting time,
the average annual dollar gain would be $12,240 to $13,770 versus harvest sales. Also note that
the standard deviation of the pre-harvest price is lower than that of the harvest-time price.




                                                                                                       3
This pattern helps to explain why in the last 5 to 6 years the grain industry has chosen to offer a
large set of seasonal new-crop grain pricing contracts. These marketing instruments give farmers
the average new-crop price for harvest delivery that is available in the first 6 months of the
marketing year, or in some cases a designated shorter period. Other variations of these contracts
give farmers a floor price that is based on this average, minus the cost of buying call options that
retain upward price flexibility to take advantage of occasional years when prices rise sharply
during the summer. The contracts are designed to allow farmers to take advantage of a long-
standing tendency of the market to offer higher prices early in the year than at harvest time.

Figure 2 shows the pattern of December corn futures for all years following a weather-induced
short crop from 1975 through 2003. In such years, the job of new-crop futures is to insure that a
second short crop will not occur the next fall. If the futures market is successful in doing its job,
prices will have a high probability of declining as harvest approaches. For the eight such years
since 1975, that pattern emerged each year. The average pattern is shown in Figure 2 for both
the longer and the shorter period. The post-short crop pricing strategy used in this study, with
the farm conditions noted above, produced an average additional $17,600 per year gain over the
harvest futures price for the post short crop years. Wisner, Blue, and Baldwin (1998)
investigated this pattern back to the early 1900s in the Chicago corn futures market and since the
early 1940s for soybeans. They found a strong tendency of this pattern to persist in post-short-
crop years over the entire period, except for years that were the beginning of major wars
(Wisner, Baldwin, and Blue, NCR 1997).

Figure 3 shows the year-by-year changes in price of December corn futures from the selected
transaction dates examined here. Six out of the 29 years showed lower prices in the pre-harvest
period than at harvest. Five of these years reflected severe drought in the Corn Belt, and the
remaining year was a time of widespread excessive rains.

                                        Literature Review

In the 1960s, the Random Walk Theory and the efficient market hypothesis (EMH) were
popularized by Cootner (1960) and Samuelson (1965). These concepts are based on the
assumptions that in the aggregate, market participants are risk-neutral and have rational
expectations. EMH implies that prices fluctuate randomly about their intrinsic value at each
moment in time, reflect all available market information, and that futures prices are unbiased
estimators of future spot prices (Taylor, 1985 and 1995). This concept was initially applied to
stock markets that, unlike grain, are not affected by definite seasonal factors related to weather.
Using these concepts, the authors have argued that the optimum investment strategy in the stock
market is to routinely buy and hold an index of stocks and bonds, rather than attempting to time
purchases and sales of investments to beat the market.

During the last 35 years, various authors have applied this concept to agricultural futures
markets, and have conducted marketing efficiency tests (Kenyon, 1993). The results from their
investigations have advanced the debate as to whether hedge and/or option-based pre-harvest
marketing strategies can increase grain producers’ profits from those generated by naïve
strategies. Various naïve strategies tested have included selling the grain at harvest time, selling
equal amounts daily throughout the marketing year, or selling equal amounts daily throughout a



                                                                                                    4
pre-defined pre-harvest period plus the post-harvest marketing period extending to the next
harvest.

Gay and Kim (1987), after noting that seasonal patterns had been identified in stock markets,
studied the Commodity Research Bureau (CRB) index of all major futures-traded commodities
over a 29-year period. Over the historical period, they found negative returns for purchasing
December CRB contracts. Chang and Tapley (1983) studied daily closes of 15 commodity
futures markets and 6 financial futures markets on the CBOT for the 1972-1980 period. Their
study indicated that grain returns typically peaked on Wednesdays, and had a second peak on
Friday, but were negative on Mondays, in a pattern very similar to that of stock markets. The
financial markets also exhibited a year-end effect and a half-month effect.

Tolmasky and Hindanov (2002) found defined seasonal patterns in petroleum and natural gas
futures markets, as did Girma and Paulson (1998), and Considine and Larson (2001). The latter
two authors indicated that empirical findings provide rather strong support for the presence of
risk premiums in these energy markets that rise sharply with higher price volatilities. Heath,
Jarrow, and Morton (1990) found evidence of risk premiums in bond markets. Other work that
identified seasonality in commodity futures included Roll (1983), Rock (1991), and Admati and
Pfleiderer (1988), and Anderson (1985). De Roon, Nijman, and Veld (2000, p. 414), in studying
CBOT agricultural commodities, found seasonal parameters in their model that “clearly were
significantly different from zero”.

The explanations for these seasonal patterns vary, and appear inconsistent with the EMH.
Milonas indicates, “Because the flow of information which affects commodities follows a
seasonal pattern, commodity prices exhibit strong seasonalities which are captured in their
volatilities” (p. 343). Wang (2001), in another study of investor returns in six agricultural futures
markets from 1993 through 2000 uses an index of large trader sentiment based on the
Commitment of Traders (COF) reports. Markets studied were corn, soybeans, soybean meal,
wheat, cotton, and sugar. His study found conclusions consistent with the hedging pressure
theory advanced by Keynes (1930). This theory argues that hedgers pay risk premiums to
speculators to transfer otherwise non-marketable and unacceptable risks. His speculative
sentiment indices indicate that large speculators earn positive returns for bearing the risks.

                                   Focus of the Current Study

This paper adds to the above discussion by comparing prices generated from alternative corn and
soybean pre-harvest and post-harvest marketing strategies to several alternative market and
farmer benchmark prices. It also tests the hypothesis that a systematic set of pre-harvest
marketing strategies has been able to generate statistically higher prices than those from the
various naïve strategies. This hypothesis is tested by creating simulated gross returns for two
actual farms in northern Iowa and one in Ohio, utilizing actual futures, options, local cash grain
market data and actual farm yields for the 1985-2001 marketing years.

This study also identifies the net returns for storing grain into the post-harvest marketing period.
Three strategies are evaluated: (1) monthly, store and sell an un-priced equal amount of corn and
soybeans. (2) Monthly and during normal crop years, store and sell an equal amount of corn and



                                                                                                   5
soybeans that have been hedged. If a short crop year occurs, do not store the grain into the post
harvest period. (3) Use a strategy that has long been employed by the grain elevator sector,
namely to store and hedge the grain only if the market offers expected profitable opportunities
for holding into the post-harvest marketing period. Otherwise the grain is sold at harvest. In
future work, these findings will be incorporated into pre-and-post marketing strategies to test the
hypothesis that these combined strategies will generate statistically higher prices than those from
naïve strategies.

Work by Pfeiffer et al. (1990) identified profitable pre-harvest pricing strategies for Nebraska
soybean growers, using options premiums simulated through the Black Model. Later work at
Nebraska (Pfeiffer et al., 1996) using a Mean-Variance (EV) model identified a number of pre-
harvest soybean pricing strategies that provide a higher income and lower variance than harvest
cash sales. Irwin et al. (2003) chose to measure the performance of market advisory services
against three alternative market benchmarks rather than harvest prices. Benchmarks used were
20 and 24-month price series, based on the assumption that farmers could sell equal amounts of
their crops each business day from up to one year before to one year after harvest, using elevator
contracts to avoid the divisibility problem with 5,000 bushel futures contracts. The 20-month
benchmark was based on farmers initiating the pricing strategy eight months before harvest and
completing it 12 months after harvest. Post-harvest prices were adjusted back to a harvest-
equivalent price by deducting all costs associated with commercial storage. These benchmarks
were adjusted to reflect the central Illinois basis, and LDPs during the 1998-2001 period. A third
benchmark used to evaluate the performance of market advisory services was the average price
received by Illinois farmers (hereafter referred to as the farmer benchmark), adjusted back to a
harvest equivalent price by deducting the cost of commercial storage and adding in LDPs.

Using these benchmarks, Irwin et al. (2003) found that advisory services as a group, during the
five years ending with the 2001 crops, were able to beat the farmer benchmark. For corn,
advisory services as a group beat the market benchmarks by only one to three cents per bushel.
For soybeans over this period, the advisory services were able to beat the market benchmarks by
11 to 18 cents per bushel. When using the farmer benchmarks for comparison, average gains
from advisory services were 10 cents for corn and 17 cents for soybeans. The short time period
covered by the study is a limitation in drawing conclusions about long-term performance.

Earlier work by Wisner, Baldwin and Blue tested the performance of pre-harvest pricing
strategies reported here versus harvest sales. In the current analysis, the strategies also are
compared with prices generated from the market benchmarks used by Irwin et al., with
adjustments to reflect Iowa and Ohio conditions.

LDP Strategies and Strategy Adjustments

Previous published work by the authors analyzed the performance of mixed futures and options
strategies for the years from 1985 through 1996. Extending this work to 2001 required price
adjustments to reflect the changing U.S. agricultural policies. Beginning with the 1998
marketing year, policy changes and depressed world markets activated the Loan Deficiency
Payment (LDP) mechanism of the U.S. farm policy safety network for farmers. If prices drop
below the loan rate, farmers are eligible to receive a direct payment, the LDP, approximately



                                                                                                  6
equal to the difference between the local cash price and the loan rate. This mechanism greatly
complicates forward pricing of crops before harvest if the forward contract or local hedge
equivalent price is below the loan rate. If the price rises after forward pricing (unless options are
used), the price is locked in at a level below the market, and the LDP decreases or disappears
altogether. For this paper, an adjustment was not made for this contingency. Lack of such an
adjustment resulted in a bias against the pre-harvest strategies for two years of the study period.
Future work will adjust for this by avoiding pre-harvest sales when prices are below the
respective loan rates.

A second adjustment in the pricing strategies dealt with farmer decisions of whether to use the
marketing loan or take the LDP, and if so, when. The LDP management strategy used here was
to take the LDP at harvest, using the October average LDP per bushel for the respective crop for
the respective state.

Farms Analyzed

For this study, yields from actual farms in northwest Ohio and northwest Iowa were used to
capture the interaction of price and yield in determining farm incomes. The Iowa farms
represented variations in land quality, with one farm having a lower variance of yields and a
higher average yield than the other, to see whether results from the marketing strategies would be
affected noticeably. One farm had a 140 bushel average yield for the 29 years ending in 2003
with a standard deviation of 18.6 bushels per acre, while the other had a 121 bushel per acre
average yield with a 23.6 bushel per acre standard deviation. The Ohio farm had an average corn
yield of 142 bushels per acre with a standard deviation of 42 bushels per acre. Differences in
soybean yield levels and variability were somewhat less than for corn. Results for the two Iowa
farms were very similar; for that reason strategies for only one Iowa farm are reported here.

For Iowa, the years 1985 through 2001 included one significant local drought and one extreme
flood year, 1993. The Ohio farm experienced adverse weather and below normal yields for only
one year. The study period also included record-high corn prices, prices well below the
government loan rate, near-record corn exports, and very low corn exports. It spanned a period
of four different U.S. farm bills and widely varying U.S. farm price/income support policies.
Thus, the study period allowed the marketing strategies to be tested over a wide range of
weather, market, and government policy conditions.

Pricing Strategies

The pricing strategies presented in this paper were the identical strategies reported in the
previous work by the authors and described in detail in Wisner, Blue, and Baldwin (1998).

For corn in both the Iowa and Ohio farms the following strategies were used:

   a) Hedge with December futures, May week 3 to November week 1 and




                                                                                                    7
   b) Hedge with December futures following normal year: May week 3 to November week 1
      and hedge with December futures following a short crop year: February week 4 to
      November week 1.

In addition, results from the following pre-harvest mixed hedge/options corn strategies included:

   a) After normal year: hedge with December/November futures, May week 3 to November
      week 1 and hold “one strike out-of-the-money” December call from May week 3 to July
      week 1; following a short crop year: hedge with December futures, February week 4 to
      November week 1.

   b) After normal year: 80% of 10-year moving average production is hedged using at-the-
      money December put options, from May week1 to November week 1; the remaining 20%
      hedged is with futures, from July week 1 to November week 1; following a short crop
      year: hedge with December futures, from February week 1 to November week 1.

For soybeans in the both Iowa and Ohio farms the following strategies were used:

   a) Hedge with November futures, May week 3 to October week 3.

   b) Hedge with November futures following normal year: May week 3 to October week 3;
      hedge with November futures following a short crop year: February week 4 to October
      week 3.

   c) Synthetic puts, hedging with November futures, May week 3 to October week 3 and with
      “one strike out-of-the-money” call options, May week 3 to July week 1.

For all strategies, except the 80% put/20% hedge strategy noted above, the amount of production
hedged with futures, and call options was 100% of the 10 year rolling average in a given year.
The average corn yield has been increasing at about 1.4% per year, making the 10-year average a
conservative measure of potential production. For example, for one of the northwest Iowa farms,
the 10-year rolling average in at the start of the 2003 planting season was 127.1 bushels per acre,
while the previous four-year average was 137 bushels. The constraint of matching sales to the
nearest 5,000 bushels also helped to keep the sales level conservative relative to potential
production. All transactions were based on closing market prices.

Prices, Option Premiums and Other Data

For the pre-harvest marketing strategies, closing Thursday cash, futures prices and options
premiums were used. Cash prices were averages paid to farmers in northern Iowa and at
Northwest Ohio elevators. If the markets were closed on Thursday, the preceding Wednesday's
prices were used. Local basis patterns were also incorporated into the analysis. Round turn
brokerage fees of $40 and $60 were charged for futures and options accounts, respectively, and a
7 percent initial margin was used on futures accounts. Interest rates for investments in hedge-
related costs and option premiums were charged at the annual prime rate plus 1 percent.




                                                                                                 8
Hedges and options positions were executed up to the highest integer level not exceeding the
expected production, using 5,000-bushel contracts. With upward trending yields, this procedure
provided a cushion to help avoid being oversold in years of short crops. When an oversold
position occurred, the excess was bought back at the harvest futures price (the third week of
October for soybeans and for the first week of November for corn). All cash transactions were
made at these same times.

When futures profits were generated, the prevailing three-month U.S. Treasury bill rate was credited
to the account. Futures were marked to market each week, and maximum account losses were
recorded weekly.

Storage Costs

To calculate net returns to storage, commercial storage costs were used in order to maintain
consistency with market benchmarks compiled by University of Illinois researchers.
Commercial storage costs included (1) extra drying charges and shrinkage of corn (but not
soybeans) by the elevator to lower moisture content one percentage point below the allowable
level for immediate sale, (2) interest cost paid by farmers on the harvest-time value of the corn,
and (3) typical commercial storage charges at local elevators.

                                             Results
Pre-Harvest Pricing Strategies and Benchmark Prices

All annual corn and soybean pre-harvest marketing strategy, benchmark, and harvest prices,
averages, standard deviations, and “t” tests are reported in Tables 2 –5 for a case farm in O’Brien
County, Iowa and in northwestern Ohio. For comparative purposes, LDPs were added to the pre-
harvest marketing strategy prices for the 1998 to 2001 period. The statistical differences for net
revenues are not reported here as they have been in prior studies (Wisner, Blue and Baldwin,
1998). Thus, these results do not reflect the impact of local crop failures possibly biasing the
results in favor of the benchmark results. Benchmark data were obtained from the University of
Illinois. The 20 and 24-month market benchmarks were adjusted to equivalent levels for Ohio
and Iowa using annual harvest basis differences among the respective states. It was assumed that
basis variations at other times of the year would closely reflect relative differences at harvest.
Northwest Iowa typically has a weaker basis than Illinois, while the northwest Ohio basis
typically is slightly stronger than that of Illinois. The farmer benchmark data were adjusted by:

   1) Obtaining USDA, NASS annual marketing year average prices paid to farmers for the
      three states for the study period.
   2) Adding Illinois LDP data for the years 1998-2001 to the Illinois NASS farmer average
      price series.
   3) Computing the difference between annual Illinois farmer benchmark prices and the
      NASS price series + plus LDPs.
   4) Deducting this difference annually from Iowa and Ohio NASS data, and adding LDP data
      for the years 1998-2001 to the resulting Iowa and Ohio price series to achieve
      comparability with the Illinois series.


                                                                                                     9
Illinois farmer benchmark prices contain deductions from NASS prices for all costs associated
with commercial storage, for that portion of the crop stored beyond harvest. LDPs are added to
obtain the Illinois farmer benchmark series. Thus, the difference between the Illinois NASS
farmer price and the benchmark reflects storage costs and LDPs. By deducting this difference
from Iowa and Ohio NASS prices, we assumed that commercial storage costs would be
approximately equal across state lines.

For 2002 and 2003, benchmark price data are currently not available for this analysis. In both
2002 and 2003, prices for soybeans in particular increased sharply as the harvest season began.
Adding 2002 and 2003 data to the analysis will likely reduce the “t” test significance levels that
are reported in this paper for the 1985 to 2001 time period.

Corn Results

For O’Brien County, Iowa, the pre-harvest marketing strategies reported here include (1)
hedging from May, week 3 to November, week 1, (2) hedging from May, week 3 to November,
week 1 following normal crop years and hedging from February, week 4 to November, week 1
following short crop years (normal/short crop hedge), and (3) (synthetic put/short crop hedge)
hedge May week 3 to November week 1 and hold call May week 3 to July week 1 and following
short crop year: hedge February week 4 to November week 1. The call is offset in July to
capture the remaining time value based on the assumption that by July the size of the crop is
known with some certainty.


As displayed in Table 2 for O’Brien County Iowa, average corn prices for the selected pre-
harvest marketing strategies were about $0.20 higher than the 20 and 24 month benchmark
prices, about $0.40 higher than the farmer benchmark price, and were about $0.25 higher than
the harvest price. The reported differences were statistically significant at less than one-half of
one percent level for the 20 – month, 24 – month and the Farmer Adjusted price series,
respectively. The statistical differences between the pre-harvest strategies and the harvest price
series ranges between 0.3 and 1.8 percent. When comparing standard deviations between the
benchmarks, harvest price series and the pre-harvest marketing strategies, a consistent pattern
does not appear. For example, the standard deviation for the May to November hedge about
equals the standard deviation for the 20 month adjusted benchmark and the farmer benchmark
price series. The standard deviation for the 24-month benchmark is lower than the standard
deviation for the hedge while the standard deviation for the harvest price series is higher.
Similar findings are observed when the standard deviations are calculated as a percentage of the
respective means. The standard deviations for the normal/short crop hedge and the synthetic
put/short crop hedges are lower than most benchmark and harvest period standard deviations.
When the standard deviations are calculated as a percentage of the respective means, the
coefficients for both the normal/short crop hedge and the synthetic put/short crop hedge are
lower than the corresponding coefficients for all benchmark and harvest prices. One can
conclude that for the 1985-2001-time period, the pre-harvest marketing strategies statistically
increased prices relative to the benchmark and harvest period, and may or may not have
decreased the volatility within the price series.



                                                                                                 10
As noted earlier, it should be recognized that in making these price variability comparisons, the
pre-harvest strategies reflect both price and yield variability, whereas the benchmark prices
reflect only price variability. The judgment on whether these strategies reduced price variability
will be deferred to a later report when compatibility is achieved by introducing yield risk into the
benchmark price series.

Similar comparisons are reported for a case study farm in northwestern Ohio in Table 3. Pre-
harvest marketing strategies included a May to November hedge, normal/short crop hedge, and
an (80%/20% put/hedge) with short crop hedge. For the latter strategy, 80 percent of the crop
was locked into a put and the remaining 20 percent of the 10-year moving average yield was
hedged in early July, subject to the limitation that transactions were made in 5,000-bushel units.

Average Ohio corn prices for the selected pre-harvest marketing strategies ranged from $0.14 to
$0.18 higher than the 20 and 24-month benchmark prices and harvest series prices. Prices for the
three pre-harvest strategies ranged from $0.32 to $0.35 higher than the farmer benchmark series.
These differences were statistically significant at levels ranging from less than one percent to
10.6 percent. The (80%/20% put/hedge) with short crop hedge pre-harvest marketing strategy
performed best, with the statistical significance ranging from less than one percent when
compared to the farmer benchmark price series to two percent when compared to the harvest
price series.

In contrast, there was more price variability in two of the pre-harvest marketing strategy price
series than there was in the corresponding 20- and 24-month series. The standard deviations for
the hedge from May week 3 to November week 1 and for the synthetic put were $0.46 and $0.42
respectively. Both pre-harvest standard deviations, as a percent of mean, were higher than the
standard deviations for the 20- and 24-month benchmark price series. The $0.33 standard
deviations for the normal and short crop pre-harvest hedge strategy, as a percent of mean, were
lower than the corresponding standard deviations for all of the benchmark price series. As with
Iowa, the Ohio pre-harvest strategies increased the average prices for 1985 to 2001 time period
but did not consistently reduce the price volatility.

Although average corn prices reported for the Ohio pre-harvest pricing strategies were
statistically significant relative to its bench mark and harvest price series, the gains were less
than those reported for the O’Brien County Iowa market. This difference is explained by
examining the basis for the Iowa market relative to the basis for the Ohio market. Because the
Eastern Corn Belt Ohio market is in close proximity to the grain-deficit northeastern U.S. dairy
feeding area and the grain-deficit southeastern poultry and hog U.S. feeder area, and has
excellent transportation rates to these domestic markets and to the export markets on both coasts,
the Ohio basis is higher at harvest time than it is in Iowa. Further, the basis improvement in
Ohio during the post harvest period (storage period) increases at a more rapid rate than the
corresponding basis improvement in the Iowa market. Since the stronger Ohio basis is captured
in the Ohio benchmark and harvest price series, the pre-harvest pricing strategies performed well
in Ohio, but not as well as in the Iowa market (Tables 2 and 3).




                                                                                                 11
Soybean Results

The soybean results for O’Brien County Iowa are reported in Table 4. Three pre-harvest
marketing strategies are reported, including (1) hedging from May week 3 to October week 3, (2)
hedging from May week 3 to October week 3 following normal crop years and hedging from
February week 4 to October week 3 following short crop years, and (3) using a synthetic put
which includes a hedge from May week 3 to October week 3 and an out of the money call from
May week 3 to July week 1. Average prices received from the May week 3 to October week 3
hedging strategy exceeded the 20 and 24-month benchmark prices, farmer benchmark prices, and
the harvest period prices by $0.27, $0.25, $0.52 and $0.30, respectively. These differences were
statistically significant at less than 1.8 percent levels (Table 4). Similar findings and levels of
significance also exist for the normal/short crop hedge and the synthetic put pre-harvest
marketing strategies.

In prior research for the 1985 to 2001 period, prices for the synthetic put were statistically higher
than the corresponding hedge strategies. Since the calls for the synthetic hedges were lifted in
July to re-capture part of the time value, the synthetic hedge did not perform well in the 2002 and
2003 crop years where prices increased after the July period. In 2003, prices did not begin their
rapid increase until after the September crop report was released. When benchmark data are
available for these two years, introduction of the 2002 and 2003 price data into the analysis will
likely reduce the significant levels reported here.

The standard deviation for the three pre-harvest marketing strategies was higher than the
standard deviations for the 20-month and 24-month benchmark price series (Table 4). The
standard deviations for the hedge and synthetic put were higher than the farmer benchmark price,
and the standard deviation for the harvest price series was higher than the corresponding standard
deviations for the two of the three pre-harvest hedging strategies. Similar findings were observed
when the standard deviations were calculated as a percentage of the respective means. As with
corn, the pre-harvest marketing strategies increased the price levels compared to the benchmark
and harvest price series but did not conclusively reduce the price volatility. In making volatility
comparisons, the reader is cautioned that the same qualifications noted above for corn also apply
to soybeans.

The results for the case study farm in northwestern Ohio are reported in Table 5. The three pre-
harvest marketing strategies are the May week 3 to October week 3 hedge, normal/short crop
hedge where soybeans are hedged from May week 3 to October week 3 following normal crop
years and are hedged from February week 4 to October week 3 following short crop years, and
the synthetic put where a hedge is in place from May week 3 to October week 3 and an out-of-
the-money call is owned from May week 3 to July week 1. The call is offset in July to capture
the remaining time value based on the assumption that the size of the crop is relatively well
known.

The average prices for these three pre-harvest marketing strategies varied by only four cents
ranging from $5.99 for the normal/short crop hedge to $6.03 for the synthetic put. The prices for
all three pre-harvest marketing strategies exceeded the benchmark prices and the harvest period
prices, and were mostly significant at the less than one percent level. Except for the farmer



                                                                                                  12
benchmark price series, the gains from the pre-harvest marketing strategies were eight to nine
cents better than the gains observed for Iowa. These state-to-state differences appear to reflect
differences in behavior of basis patterns for the respective states, including Ohio’s access to
export markets through Toledo and the Ohio river-barge market.

The standard deviation for the two hedge pre-harvest marketing strategies are larger than the
standard deviations for the benchmark price series and are lower than the standard deviation for
the harvest price series. The standard deviation for the synthetic put is larger than all benchmark
and harvest period standard deviations. Similar findings were observed when the standard
deviation was calculated as a percentage of the respective means. For Ohio, the pre-harvest
marketing strategies increase prices relative to the benchmark and harvest period price series but
do not lower the price volatility. However, as noted in the corn results section, a later report in
which benchmark prices are used to generate gross incomes on the case farm, volatility
comparisons may change from those shown here. The authors hypothesize that such
comparisons will narrow the price variability differences between the pre-harvest pricing
alternatives and the benchmark prices.

                     Net Returns to Storage: Preliminary Findings, Iowa

At the time of this writing, the post-harvest marketing strategy analysis is continuing to be
developed. Three strategies are being investigated: (1) annually sell equal amounts of corn or
soybeans monthly from January to July on the open market; (2) hedge and sell equal amounts of
these commodities monthly from January to July following a normal crop year, otherwise sell at
harvest time following a short crop year; and (3) use a three-year moving average to store these
commodities when the expected basis improvement is greater than the expected storage cost to a
specific month, otherwise sell the grain at harvest. Both futures and basis risk are present in the
first strategy. For the second strategy, basis risk affects the outcome, and grain is sold monthly
following normal years even if some a priori monthly returns appear to be negative. For the third
strategy, basis risk affects the outcome, but the storage activity is performed only to the month
that has the highest positive expected returns. For years when the moving average basis implies
that only losses will occur, the storage activity is not performed.

The analysis is based on both on-farm and off-farm storage costs and fees. Since the benchmark
price series are adjusted to a harvest base by subtracting off-farm storage fees, the on-farm
preliminary findings are not reported here. To calculate the fees for both Ohio and Iowa, the
annual storage fees were acquired from the respective grain elevators. It was assumed that the
moisture content would be reduced from 15% to 14%, and the annual prime interest rate was
multiplied by the annual harvest price to determine the monthly opportunity cost to store grain.

Corn results

For Iowa, storing corn monthly from January to July over the study period resulted in an average
loss of -$0.11 per bushel with a standard deviation of $0.28. Storing, selling corn monthly, and
speculating on price resulted in a very a large range of annual profits and losses. Storing corn
into an unexpected short crop year resulted in an annual profit of $0.72 per bushel while storing
corn following a short crop year resulted in an annual loss equaling -$0.52 per bushel. Storing



                                                                                                    13
and selling an equal amount of corn monthly from January through April reduced the annual loss
to - $0.09 per bushel and reduced the standard deviation to $0.18. By shortening the storage
season, the farmer forgoes both the opportunity to earn an unexpected high profit during the
beginning of the short crop year and avoids some large losses.

Hedging, storing, and selling corn monthly from January to July following normal crop years
resulted in an average loss of -$0.07 with a standard deviation of $0.13. Hedging stored corn
both reduced the loss and the volatility relative to the open storage strategy. The average loss
was reduced by only four cents per bushel compared to open storage; however, the standard
deviation was reduced by $0.15 per bushel. Storing, hedging, and selling an equal amount of
corn from January to April resulted in a loss of -$0.05 per bushel with a standard deviation of
$0.11 per bushel. Losses were reduced by four cents per bushel with a reduction in the standard
deviation of $0.07 per bushel.

Finally, the third post harvest strategy in which corn was stored only when the three-year moving
average basis suggested that a positive return would be generated resulted in an average loss of
-$0.01 per bushel annually with a standard deviation of $0.05 per bushel. In short, selective
storing and hedging of grain resulted in both a major reduction in losses and volatility. It should
be noted that more often than not with this sales strategy, corn was not stored. These findings
and the ones that will follow suggest that commercial storage rates either limit or prevent
positive returns to storage. Elevator managers in Ohio confirmed that storage space was scare
and thus storage rates were relatively high to encourage farmers to use other marketing
alternatives such as delayed pricing.

Soybean results

For Iowa, storing soybeans monthly from January to July resulted in an average loss of -$0.14
per bushel with a standard deviation of $0.62. Storing, selling soybeans monthly and speculating
on price resulted in a very a large range of annual profits and losses. Storing soybeans into an
unexpected short crop year resulted in an annual profit of $1.36 per bushel while storing
soybeans following a short crop year resulted in annual loss equaling -$1.14 per bushel. Storing
and selling an equal amount of soybeans monthly from January through May reduced the annual
loss to -$0.12 per bushel and reduced the standard deviation to $0.50. By shortening the storage
season, the farmer gave up both the opportunity to earn an unexpected high profit during the
beginning of the short crop year and avoided some of the large losses.


Hedging, storing, and selling soybeans monthly from January to July following normal crop
years resulted in an average loss of -$0.10 per bushel with a standard deviation of $0.11. The
average loss was reduced by only three cents per bushel compared to open storage; however, the
standard deviation was reduced by $0.51 per bushel. Storing, hedging, and selling an equal
amount of soybeans from January to March or April resulted in a loss of- $0.07 per bushel with a
standard deviation of $0.08 per bushel. Losses were reduced by five cents per bushel with a
reduction in the standard deviation of $0.42 per bushel.




                                                                                                14
Finally, the third post harvest strategy in which soybeans were stored only when the three-year
moving average basis suggested that a positive return would be generated resulted in an average
loss of -$0.05 per bushel annually with a standard deviation of $0.01 per bushel. In short,
selective storing of grain resulted in both a major reduction in losses and volatility. It should be
noted that more often than not with this sales strategy, soybeans were not stored. Similar results
were found for Ohio but are not reported here.

                                          Conclusions
Prior research by the present authors and others identified opportunities for price enhancement
through pre-harvest pricing of corn and soybeans with futures and options. In the last several
years, with increasing farm size and other changes in grain production, the grain industry has
developed a number of new pre-harvest grain contracts that are designed to let farmers
participate in perceived seasonal patterns in new-crop corn and soybean futures prices. At the
same time, agricultural economists at the AgMAS project at the University of Illinois have
developed a set of benchmark prices for evaluating the performance of agricultural market
advisory services. These benchmarks allow evaluation of pre-harvest pricing strategies from a
broader perspective, in addition to the traditional benchmark of harvest prices. The work
reported here was undertaken to analyses pre-harvest pricing strategy performance, and to
determine whether incentives exist for use of the newer seasonal grain contracts for pre-harvest
pricing.

The conclusion is that over the 1985-2001 period, economically and statistically significant
incentives for use of pre-harvest pricing in corn and soybeans have existed, although these
strategies did not produce greater income than the benchmark alternatives every year. Less
detailed work indicates similar price behavior occurred for the 1975-2003 period. These findings
help to explain the rapid expansion in offerings of alternative pre-harvest grain pricing contracts
in the last several years. The behavior of the soybean market in the last two crop years suggests
that when benchmark data are available for 2002 and 2003, the average gains from pre-harvest
soybean pricing strategies may be less than those shown here. The impacts on corn results from
addition of the 2002 and 2003 benchmark data are expected to be smaller.

One cannot conclude that the pre-harvest strategies shown here consistently reduce price
variability from those of the benchmark alternatives. This conclusion will be revisited in a later
report. The pre-harvest pricing models used here determine gross returns per acre from
alternative strategies by incorporating yield variability from actual farms in northwest Iowa and
northwest Ohio over the study period. The average prices from pre-harvest strategies in the
model are then calculated by dividing gross income by bushels produced. Thus, price variability
from various pre-harvest pricing alternatives reflects both price and yield variability, whereas the
benchmark prices reflect only price variability.

In analyzing the net returns to off-farm storage, it is concluded that on average both hedged and
unhedged storage lowered the value of farmer’s crops from prices available at harvest. This
conclusion held for both corn and soybeans. These results help to explain the increasing role of
pre-harvest pricing alternatives in farmer marketing plans and their priority in recommendations
of advisory services. Storage hedging strategies reduced losses and price volatility from that of


                                                                                                  15
open grain storage, but still generated negative returns. Negative storage returns together with
price patterns, help to explain why the 20 and 24-month benchmark prices are above the farmer
benchmarks. The farmer benchmarks reflect the marketing year average price received by
farmers in their respective states, less costs of storing off the farm, plus LDPs that were paid in
1998-2001.

            Implications, Limitations, and Areas for Further Research
Perhaps the most troubling aspect of this work is its apparent inconsistency with the Efficient
Market Hypothesis. A number of other studies, as shown in the literature review, have noted
similar patterns that point to seasonality in pre-harvest futures prices for corn and soybeans. The
findings suggest a need for further work to understand and explain the market behavior of these
commodities. While this study analyzes price behavior over a wide range of U.S. and world
supply, demand, and policy conditions, it also will be important to continue updating these
strategies periodically in the years ahead, to see whether the patterns identified here continue.

Other areas for future work, some of which the authors plan to pursue, include (1) incorporating
production costs into the case farm analyses to examine impacts of the strategies and benchmark
prices on the level and variability of net farm income, (2) expanding the strategies to include
longer seasonal pricing periods that more closely match those in pre-harvest contracts such as
Cargill’s +A contracts, (3) analyzing post-harvest strategies using on-farm storage costs, (4)
examining the impacts of adding revenue insurance to manage production risk simultaneously
with price risk, and (5) testing to see whether the expanded role of South America in world
soybean production has altered the performance of the soybean strategies. Rapidly expanded use
of harvest-price revenue insurance also creates an opportunity for examination of its impact on
optimal hedge ratios in pre-harvest pricing.




                                                                                                  16
                                         References

Admati, A. and Pfleiderer, P. (1988) A theory of intraday patterns: Volume and price
volatility. Review of Financial Studies 1: 3-40.

Anderson, R. (1985) Some determinants of the volatility of futures prices. Journal of Futures
Markets 5: 331-348.

Bessembinder, H. (1992) Systematic risk, hedging pressure, and risk premiums in futures
markets. Review of Financial Studies 47: 2015-2034.

Chang, E.C. (1985) Returns to speculators and the theory of normal backwardation. Journal
of Finance 40: 193-208.

Chang, R. and Tapley, T.C. (1983) The day of the week effect in the futures market. Review
of Research in Futures Markets 2: 256-410.

Considine, T. and Larson, D.F. (2001) Risk premiums on inventory assets: The case of crude
oil and natural gas. Journal of Futures Markets 21(2): 109-126.

Cootner, P., Returns to Speculators: Telser vs. Keynes, J. Polit. Econ. 68 (1960), 396-404.

De Roon, F., Nijman, T. and Veld, C. (2000) Hedging pressure effects in futures markets.
Journal of Finance 55: 1437-1456.

Gay, G.D. and Kim, T.H. (1987) An investigation into seasonality in the futures markets.
Journal of Futures Markets 7(2): 169-182.

Girma, P.B. and Paulson, A.S. (1998) Seasonality in petroleum future spreads. Journal of
Futures Markets 18(5): 581-598.

Heath, D., Jarrow, R. and Morton, A. (1990) Bond pricing and the term structure of interest
rates. A discrete time approximation. Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 25:
419-440.

Irwin, S.; Martines-Filho, J.; and Good, D. L., The pricing performance of Market Advisory
Services in Corn and Soybeans over 1995-2001: A Non-technical Summary, AgMASS
Project Report 2003-6, June 2003.

Kenyon, D., Jones, E., and McGwirk, A. (1993) Forecasting performance of corn and
soybean harvest futures contracts. American Journal of Agricultural Economics 75: 399-407.

Keynes, J.M. (1930) A treatise on money, vol. 2. Macmillan Publishing, London, U.K

Milonas, N.T. (1991) Measuring seasonality in commodity markets and the half-month
effect. Journal of Futures Markets 3: 331-345.



                                                                                              17
O’Brien, D. “Do Profitable Grain Marketing Strategies Exist for Kansas Crops?”
Workshop at the American Agricultural Economics Association Annual Meeting
in Tampa, Florida, July 30-August 2, 2000.

Patrick, G. F.; Musser, W. N., and Eckman, D. T., (1998), Forward Marketing Practices and
Attitudes of Large Scale Midwestern Grain Producers, Review of Agricultural Econonics, 20
(1) 38-53.

Rock, K. 1991. The Specialist’s Order Book: A possible explanation for the year-end
anomaly. Review of Financial Studies.

Roll, R. (1983) Orange juice and weather. Agricultural Economics Review 74: 861-880.

Samuelson (1965) Proof that properly anticipated prices fluctuate randomly. Industrial
Management Review 6: 41-49.

Taylor (1995) E.M.H.: Reduced to agents in aggregate sense, have rational expectations and
are risk neutral so futures price is an unbiased estimator of futures spot price.

Taylor, M.P. (1995) The economics of exchange rates. Journal of Economic Literature 33:
13-47.

Taylor, S.C. (1985) The behavior of futures prices over time. Applied Economics 17: 713-
734.

Tolmasky, Carlos and Dmitry Hindanov. (2002) Principal components analysis for correlated
curves and seasonal commodities: the case of the petroleum markets, Journal of Futures
Markets 22(11): 1019-1035.

Wang, Changyun. (2001) Investor sentiments and return predictability in agricultural futures
markets. Journal of Futures Markets 21(10): 929-952.

Wisner, R.N., E.D. Baldwin, and Blue, N.E., "Can Pre-harvest Marketing Strategies Increase
Net Returns for Corn and Soybean Growers?" in 1997 Proceedings of NCR-134 Applied
Commodity Price Analysis, Forecasting, and Market Risk Management Conference,
Chicago, IL, April 21-22, 1997 (Oklahoma State University, Stillwater) June 1997, pp.26-41.

Wisner, R.N., E.N. Blue, and E.D. Baldwin, “Pre-harvest Marketing Strategies Increase Net
Returns for Corn and Soybean Growers,” Review of Agricultural Economics, Vol. 20, No. 2,
Fall/Winter 1998, pp. 288-307.

Zulauf, C. and Irwin, S., Market Efficiency and Marketing to Enhance Income of Crop
Producers, Review of Agricultural Economics, Vol. 20, No. 2, Fall/Winter 1998, pp. 308-331.




                                                                                           18
Table 1. Average Futures Prices and Standard Deviations for Selected Periods
                    Average Thursday Average Thursday Standard
                    December Futures December Futures Deviation, All
                    Prices, All Years - Prices , All Years – Years 1975 – 2003
                    1975 – 2003          1985- 2003
Mid-May             $2.63                $2.50                 $0.38
Early November      $2.47                $2.32                 $0.48




                                                                                 19
Table 2. O’Brien County Iowa Adjusted Benchmark and Harvest Corn Prices, Selected Pre-Harvest
Marketing Strategy Corn Prices And Related “t” Tests, 1985 – 2001
           Iowa Adjusted Benchmark And Harvest Prices           Selected Pre-Harvest Marketing
                                                                Strategy Prices
Year       20-Month 24 – Month Farmer –          Harvest        Hedge (5) Normal/        Synthetic Put
           (1)         (2)          Adjusted (3) (Nov) (4)                   Short Crop & post hedge
                                                                             Hedge (6) (7)
1985              2.06         2.13         1.78           2.06         2.36        2.36           2.33
1986              1.18         1.27         0.92           1.30         1.63        1.63           1.58
1987              1.56         1.55         1.51           1.41         1.68        1.68           1.60
1988              2.17         2.00         2.05           2.40         2.02        2.02           2.77
1989              2.16         2.19         1.99           1.85         2.28        2.39           2.39
1990              2.08         2.08         1.88           2.02         2.41        2.41           2.39
1991              2.07         2.08         1.88           2.21         2.23        2.23           2.18
1992              1.93         1.98         1.66           1.84         2.19        2.32           2.32
1993              2.14         2.14         2.10           2.23         2.05        2.05           2.07
1994              2.00         2.03         1.83           1.85         2.17        2.26           2.26
1995              2.84         2.67         2.73           2.94         2.39        2.39           2.42
1996              2.58         2.57         2.24           2.42         3.39        2.86           2.86
1997              2.12         2.18         1.89           2.45         2.32        2.32           2.32
1998              1.92         2.04         1.60           1.78         2.25        2.25           2.18
1999              1.79         1.87         1.56           1.50         2.11        2.11           2.05
2000              1.96         2.04         1.74           1.74         2.41        2.41           2.26
2001              1.87         1.92         1.73           1.65         1.97        1.97           1.94
Averages          2.03        2.04          1.83          1.98          2.23        2.22          2.23
Std. Dev.         0.36         0.32         0.37           0.43         0.38        0.29           0.33
Std. Dev.,
% of
Mean              17.7         15.7          20.2         21.7         17.0        13.0           14.8
“t” test
Hedge           0.0087       0.0047        0.0002       0.0176
“t” test
Normal
Short Crop
Hedge           0.0043       0.0007 6.73595E-05         0.0144
“t” Test
Synthetic
Put             0.0015       0.0020 1.69918E-05         0.0029
(1) 20-Month Adjusted Benchmark Prices
(2) 24-Month Adjusted Benchmark Prices
(3) Farmer Adjusted Benchmark Prices
(4) Harvest (Nov 1st) Prices Plus LDP Payments
(5) Hedge May Week 3 to November Week 1
(6) Hedge Following Normal Year: May Week 3 to November Week 1 and Hedge Following
    Short Crop Year: February Week 4 to November Week 1
(7) After Normal Year: Hedge May Week 3 to November Week 1 and hold Call May Week 3 to
    July Week 1and following Short Crop Year: Hedge February Week 4 to November Week 1



                                                                                                20
Table 3. Northwestern Ohio Adjusted Benchmark and Harvest Corn Prices, Selected Pre-Harvest
Marketing Strategy Corn Prices And Related “t” Tests, 1985 – 2001
           Ohio Adjusted Benchmark And Harvest Prices           Selected Pre-Harvest Marketing
                                                                Strategy Prices
Year       20-Month 24 – Month Farmer –          Harvest        Hedge (5) Normal/        80% Put
           (1)         (2)          Adjusted (3) (Nov) (4)                   Short Crop 20% hedge(7)
                                                                             Hedge (6)
1985              1.97         2.04         1.97           1.98         2.31      2.3107       2.2894
1986              1.29         1.38         1.01           1.40         1.53      1.5325       1.4704
1987              1.71         1.70         1.57           1.56         1.87      1.8675       1.5776
1988              2.35         2.17         2.21           2.57         2.29      2.2913       2.6217
1989              2.31         2.33         2.19           2.00         2.39      2.4863       2.4863
1990              2.12         2.11         1.99           2.06         2.37       2.365       2.2041
1991              2.23         2.24         2.06           2.38         2.32      2.3192       2.2213
1992              1.98         2.02         1.72           1.88         2.21      2.3206       2.3206
1993              2.21         2.21         2.23           2.30         1.95       1.949         2.223
1994              2.08         2.10         1.84           1.92         2.27      2.3857       2.3857
1995              3.01         2.83         2.85           3.11         2.34      2.3375       2.9567
1996              2.72         2.71         2.39           2.57         3.83      3.1659       3.1659
1997              2.23         2.28         2.04           2.56         2.45       2.445       2.4473
1998              1.97         2.09         1.77           1.95         2.24        2.24          2.05
1999              1.94         2.02         1.69           1.90         2.23        2.23          2.09
2000              2.01         2.09         1.91           2.07         2.49        2.49          2.22
2001              2.04         2.09         1.85           1.99         2.14        2.14          1.97
Averages          2.13         2.14         1.96           2.13         2.31        2.29          2.28
Std. Dev.         0.37         0.33         0.39           0.41         0.46        0.33          0.42
Std. Dev.,
% of
Mean              17.4         15.4         19.9         19.3         19.9        14.4           18.4
“t” test
Hedge           0.0529       0.0519       0.0025       0.1062
“t” test
Normal
Short Crop
Hedge           0.0313       0.0194       0.0006       0.0906
“t” Test
Synthetic
Put             0.0016       0.0058    1.21 E -05      0.0200
(1) 20-Month Adjusted Benchmark Prices
(2) 24-Month Adjusted Benchmark Prices
(3) Farmer Adjusted Benchmark Prices
(4) Harvest (Nov 1st) Prices Plus LDP Payments
(5) Hedge May Week 3 to November Week 1
(6) Hedge Following Normal Year May Week 3 to November Week 1 and Hedge Following
    Short Crop Year February Week 4 to November Week 1
(7) Following Normal Year: 80% of Expected Production is hedged using at the money put
    options. May week1 to November week 1 and with remaining 20% hedged from July week 1
    to November week 1 and Following Short Crop year: Hedge From February Week 1 to
    November week 1.
                                                                                               21
Table 4. O’Brien County Iowa Adjusted Benchmark and Harvest Soybean Prices, Selected Pre-
Harvest Marketing Strategy Soybean Prices And Related “t” Tests, 1985 – 2001
           Iowa Adjusted Benchmark And Harvest Prices          Selected Pre-Harvest Marketing
                                                               Strategy Prices
Year       20-Month 24 – Month Farmer –         Harvest        Hedge (5) Normal/        Synthetic Put
           (1)         (2)         Adjusted (3) (Oct) (4)                   Short Crop (7)
                                                                            Hedge (6)
1985              4.93        5.07         4.67           4.79         5.54        5.54        5.4342
1986              4.55        4.60         4.48           4.46         4.69        4.69        4.5992
1987              5.41        5.21         5.68           4.99         5.14        5.14        5.0271
1988              6.94        6.51         6.88           7.69         7.37        7.37        8.2296
1989              5.58        5.73         5.39           5.32         6.26        6.58        6.3176
1990              5.40        5.41         5.28           5.82         6.07        6.07        6.0894
1991              5.27        5.35         5.19           5.35         5.55        5.55        5.4435
1992              5.44        5.45         5.26           4.99         5.66        5.66        5.5874
1993              5.98        5.92         6.06           5.86         5.72        5.72        6.0324
1994              5.34        5.42         5.12           4.89         5.79        5.81        5.6138
1995              6.14        6.02         6.35           6.02         5.62        5.62        5.6186
1996              7.01        6.88         7.01           6.50         7.44        6.90        7.1915
1997              5.96        6.03         5.96           6.63         6.58        6.58          6.376
1998              5.46        5.67         4.96           5.19         5.75        5.75           5.69
1999              5.04        5.24         5.18           5.26         5.16        5.16           5.08
2000              5.33        5.37         5.17           5.33         6.01        6.01           5.75
2001              5.16        5.25         5.35           5.22         5.16        5.16           5.24
Averages          5.58        5.60         5.53           5.55         5.85        5.84           5.84
Std. Dev.         0.65        0.55         0.69           0.80         0.74        0.69           0.86
Std. Dev.,
% of
Mean              11.7          9.8         12.5         14.4         12.7        11.8           14.7
“t” test
Hedge           0.0078       0.0085       0.0194       0.0125
“t” test
Normal
Short Crop
Hedge           0.0186       0.0161       0.0195       0.0175
“t” Test
Synthetic
Put             0.0218       0.0458       0.0314       0.0062
(1) 20-Month Adjusted Benchmark Prices
(2) 24-Month Adjusted Benchmark Prices
(3) Farmer Adjusted Benchmark Prices
(4) Harvest (Nov 1st) Prices Plus LDP Payments
(5) Hedge May Week 3 to October Week 3
(6) Hedge Following Normal Year May Week 3 to October Week 3 and Hedge Following Short
    Crop Year February Week 4 to October Week 3
(7) Hedge May Week 3 to October Week 3 and hold Call May Week 3 to July Week 1




                                                                                               22
Table 5. Northwest Ohio Adjusted Benchmark and Harvest Soybean Prices, Selected Pre-Harvest
Marketing Strategy Soybean Prices And Related “t” Tests, 1985 – 2001
           Ohio Adjusted Benchmark And Harvest Prices          Selected Pre-Harvest Marketing
                                                               Strategy Prices
Year       20-Month 24 – Month Farmer –         Harvest        Hedge (5) Normal/        Synthetic Put
           (1)         (2)         Adjusted (3) (Oct) (4)                   Short Crop (7)
                                                                            Hedge (6)
1985              4.82        4.95         4.78           4.68         5.29        5.29           5.21
1986              4.75        4.80         4.61           4.66         4.91        4.91           4.82
1987              5.53        5.34         5.65           5.11         5.43        5.43           5.31
1988              7.07        6.65         7.09           7.82         7.61        7.61           9.06
1989              5.73        5.89         5.50           5.48         6.40        6.73           6.46
1990              5.38        5.40         5.46           5.81         6.18        6.18           6.19
1991              5.34        5.42         5.37           5.42         5.76        5.76           5.63
1992              5.47        5.48         5.37           5.02         5.69        5.69           5.62
1993              5.91        5.85         6.14           5.79         5.70        5.70           6.02
1994              5.41        5.50         5.20           4.96         5.96        5.98           5.79
1995              6.31        6.19         6.40           6.19         5.94        5.94           5.93
1996              7.19        7.06         7.07           6.69         7.67        7.12           7.41
1997              6.12        6.18         6.12           6.79         6.82        6.82           6.59
1998              5.47        5.68         5.16           5.20         5.86        5.86           5.80
1999              5.16        5.36         5.37           5.39         5.40        5.40           5.32
2000              5.29        5.33         5.31           5.27         6.06        6.06           5.81
2001              5.29        5.38         5.46           5.30         5.40        5.40           5.46
Averages          5.66        5.67         5.65           5.62         6.01        5.99           6.03
Std. Dev.         0.68        0.58         0.70           0.83         0.76        0.71           0.99
Std. Dev.,
% of
Mean              12.0         10.2         12.4         14.8         12.7        11.9           16.4
“t” test
Hedge           0.0007       0.0010       0.0039       0.0015
“t” test
Normal
Short Crop
Hedge           0.0026       0.0023       0.0084       0.0023
“t” Test
Synthetic
Put             0.0094       0.0244       0.0133       0.0008
(1) 20-Month Adjusted Benchmark Prices
(2) 24-Month Adjusted Benchmark Prices
(3) Farmer Adjusted Benchmark Prices
(4) Harvest (Nov 1st) Prices Plus LDP Payments
(5) Hedge May Week 3 to October Week 3
(6) Hedge Following Normal Year May Week 3 to October Week 3 and Hedge Following Short
    Crop Year February Week 4 to October Week 3
(7) Hedge May Week 3 to October Week 3 and hold Call May Week 3 to July Week 1




                                                                                               23
24
