Seasonality in Agricultural Commodity Futures

Sørensen, Carsten




Document Version
Final published version




Publication date:
1999


License
CC BY-NC-ND


Citation for published version (APA):
Sørensen, C. (1999). Seasonality in Agricultural Commodity Futures. Institut for Finansiering, Copenhagen
Business School. Working Papers / Department of Finance. Copenhagen Business School No. 1999-14



Link to publication in CBS Research Portal




General rights
Copyright and moral rights for the publications made accessible in the public portal are retained by the authors and/or other copyright owners
and it is a condition of accessing publications that users recognise and abide by the legal requirements associated with these rights.


Take down policy
If you believe that this document breaches copyright please contact us (research.lib@cbs.dk) providing details, and we will remove access to
the work immediately and investigate your claim.




Download date: 03. okt.. 2026
           Seasonality in Agricultural Commodity Futures


                                     Carsten Srensen
                                   Department of Finance
                               Copenhagen Business School
                                      Rosenrns Alle 31
                                   DK-1970 Frederiksberg
                                           Denmark
                                   TEL: +45 38 15 36 15
                                   FAX: +45 38 15 36 00
                                    E-mail: cso. @cbs.dk



                                       December 1999




  The author thanks for helpful assistance from Jesper Bulow and comments and suggestions
from Johannes Mouritsen and seminar participants at Srup Herregard and a lunch bag seminar
at Copenhagen Business School. Financial support from the Danish Natural Science and Social
Science Research Councils is gratefully acknowledged.
       Seasonality in Agricultural Commodity Futures



                                    Abstract


The stochastic behavior of agricultural commodity prices is investigated using ob-
servations of the term structures of futures prices over time. The continuous time
dynamics of (log-) commodity prices are modeled as a sum of a deterministic sea-
sonal component, a non-stationary state-variable, and a stationary state-variable.
Futures prices are established by standard no-arbitrage arguments and the Kalman
 lter methodology is used to estimate the model parameters for corn futures, soy-
bean futures, and wheat futures based on weekly data from the Chicago Board of
Trade for the period 1972-1997. Furthermore, in a discussion of the estimated sea-
sonal patterns in agricultural commodity prices, we provide empirical evidence on
the theory of storage that predicts a negative relationship between stocks of inven-
tory and convenience yields; in particular, convenience yields used in this analysis
are extracted using the Kalman lter.
1 Introduction
Inference about seasonality in commodity prices can be based on the time-series characteris-
tics of sampled spot price observations. However, if the commodities are traded in a futures
market, the forms taken by the term structure of futures prices provide separat information
about seasonality in commodity prices. Consider for example futures prices for corn at the
Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT): at a given date the corn futures prices will usually be
higher for delivery in May and July than for delivery in March, September, or December.
In this paper we provide a framework that is simultaneously able to explore the information
about seasonality in the time-series as well as the panel-data characteristics of agricultural
futures prices. The modeling framework and the empirical analysis focus on estimating the
seasonal price patterns for corn, soybeans, and wheat.
    The dynamics of the (log-) commodity spot price are in this paper modeled as the sum of
a deterministic seasonal component, a non-stationary state-variable, and a stationary state-
variable. The methodology used in the analysis is inspired by the continuous-time approach
in Schwartz (1997) and, besides the seasonal component, the model is similar to the model
suggested by Schwartz and Smith (1997). The deterministic seasonal component is modeled
by a parameterized linear combination of trigonometric functions with seasonal frequencies.
The non-stationary state-variable is modeled by the logarithm of a geometric di usion pro-
cess, well-known from the standard Black-Scholes setting, and is included in order to describe
permanent price changes due to for example technology improvements, permanent changes
in demand/taste, and general price increases due to common in ation. The stationary state-
variable is modeled by an Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process and is included in order to model
commodity price e ects due to temporary periods of excess supply or demand and, hence,
is meant to capture the mean reverting feature of commodity prices that has been pointed
out by Gibson and Schwartz (1990, 1991), Brennan (1991), Cortazar and Schwartz (1994),
Bessembinder, Coughenour, Seguin, and Smoller (1995), Schwartz (1997), and Schwartz and
Smith (1997) among others. The inclusion of a stationary state-variable is also consistent
with the so-called \Samuelson hypothesis" (Samuelson, 1965) that the volatilities of commod-
ity futures prices decrease with the contract horizon; this is pointed out by Bessembinder,
Coughenour, Seguin, and Smoller (1996) who also present empirical evidence supporting the
\Samuelson hypothesis" in the case of agricultural commodities. The "Samuelson hypothe-
sis" is also con rmed by a casual investigation of the data used in the empirical analysis in

                                              1
this paper (summary statistics are provided and discussed in section 3), and this observation
is part of the motivation for the speci c construction of the seasonal two-factor model.
     Following the no-arbitrage approach in Schwartz (1997), futures prices are determined
by taking expectations of the future spot prices under an equivalent martingale measure (or,
equivalently, by solving a particular partial di erential equation). When establishing the
dynamics of the basic state-variables under the equivalent martingale measure, it is assumed
that risk premia are constant. In the present model, (log-) futures prices are aÆne functions
of the two stochastic state-variables. This fact, combined with the speci c assumptions on the
dynamics of state-variables, makes maximum likelihood estimation possible. The approach
is based on a state space formulation of the problem and an application of the Kalman lter
in a prediction error decomposition of the log-likelihood function. We use weekly futures
data based on settlement prices from CBOT in the period from January 1972 to July 1997
to estimate the parameters for corn, soybeans, and wheat.
     The estimated seasonal price components in the agricultural commodity futures prices
peak two to three months prior to the harvesting periods and reach their bottoms after the
harvesting periods. The price patterns are consistent with the reasoning that, in order to
have demand equal supply, periods of low levels of supply (i.e. before the harvesting periods)
are also periods with relatively high commodity prices whereas periods with plenty supply
(i.e. after the harvesting periods) are periods with relatively low commodity prices.
     The possibilities of storage imply that excess supplies can be carried over to future periods,
and another perspective on the seasonal patterns inherent in the agricultural futures prices
can be gained by applying the basic ideas from the theory of storage by Kaldor (1939),
Working (1948, 1949), Brennan (1958), and Telser (1958). The theory of storage explains the
di erences between the spot and futures prices with di erent contract horizons in terms of
advantages of physical inventory compared to advantages of ownership of a futures contract
for future delivery of the commodity. Physical inventory is associated with cost of carry
such as storage costs and the interest forgone by investing in storage. On the other hand,
physical inventory gives rise to a convenience yield from being able to pro t from temporary
price increases due to temporary shortages of the particular commodity or from being able
to maintain a production process despite abrupt shortages of the commodity used as input.
More generally, the convenience yield on a commodity can be de ned as the ow of services
which accrues to the owner of physical inventory but not to the owner of a contract for future
delivery; see e.g. Brennan (1991).

                                                2
    Kaldor (1939) and Working (1948, 1949) both expected the convenience yield to depend
inversely on the stocks of inventory of the commodity; as in Brennan (1991), we will refer to
this negative relationship between inventories and convenience yields as the Kaldor-Working
hypothesis. In fact, Working (1948, 1949) originally pointed out that this could explain the
phenomenon of contango, understood in this context as a negative basis (i.e. futures price
minus spot price), in agricultural commodities just before the harvesting seasons where in-
ventories are at their lowest and convenience yields thus at their highest.1 This observation
and explanation is also consistent with the seasonal price patterns estimated in this paper.
The seasonal price patterns suggest that commodity prices tend to peak prior to the harvest-
ing periods. Through the harvesting periods the spot commodity prices are expected to fall
and, basically, the marginal investors carrying inventories must experience relatively high ex-
pected returns in the form of convenience yields in order to break even in these periods. After
the harvesting periods convenience yields are low and the estimated seasonal price patterns
suggest that spot commodity prices tend to increase. This is consistent with the observation
that the marginal investors carrying inventories must somehow be compensated for the costs
of carry and in this case by expected returns in the form of spot commodity price increases.
    Taking as a fact of life that inventories for commodities like corn, soybeans, and wheat
display seasonal patterns due to their production cycles, the theory of storage (combined
with the Kaldor-Working hypothesis) predicts that convenience yields must display seasonal
variation. Using this insight, Fama and French (1987) provide empirical evidence on the
theory of storage by showing that convenience yields do vary seasonally for most agricultural
and animal products but not for metals.
    In our modeling framework, the seasonal component is an important ingredient in the
determination of implied convenience yields but it only explains part of the convenience
yield at any given date. In fact, convenience yields implied by the model will be shown
to be only a function of the stationary state-variable zt, as well as time; moreover, the
convenience yield is an aÆne function of zt 2 and can thus be estimated appropriately using
   1
      The use of the concept contango, in this context, is not entirely consistent with the usual de nition of
contango as the situation where the futures price is above the expected future spot price (see e.g. Hull (2000),
p. 74). Normal backwardation is the opposite case. Since the futures price can be viewed as the expected
future spot price under the equivalent martingale measure, only risk premia matter for whether contango or
normal backwardation is the case. The estimates obtained in this paper suggest that normal backwardation
is the case for soybeans and wheat while the results for corn are mixed, as discussed in section 4.
    2
      Likewise, Schwartz and Smith (1997) demonstrate equivalence of their non-seasonal counterpart of the


                                                       3
the Kalman lter within our modeling framework. As an implication, this for example implies
that if the term structure of futures prices moves from being increasing to being decreasing
in the contract maturity, or vice versa, this cannot in general be attributed entirely to a
change in season but will typically also be a consequence of a change in the stationary
state-variable zt which captures price e ects due to periods of temporary excess supply or
demand unrelated to seasonal aspects. Using the Kalman ltered convenience yields and
inventory data, we present empirical evidence in line with the theory of storage and the
Kaldor-Working hypothesis that predicts a negative relationship between stocks of inventory
and convenience yields. This analysis is analogues to the empirical analyses in Brennan (1958)
and Telser (1958) and, in particular, similar to the analysis in Brennan (1991) since we apply
the same non-linear structural form when regressing estimated convenience yields on stocks
of inventory. As a conceptual improvement compared to Brennan (1991), the estimation of
convenience yields by the Kalman ltering approach in this paper takes into account the
seasonal variation in convenience yields, which is of particular importance for the involved
agricultural commodities in the this study.
    The explicit modeling of commodity and futures price dynamics, as in this paper, is
relevant and applicable for hedging contracts for future delivery. This issue is discussed
extensively in Schwartz (1997) and many of the points can be directly carried over to our
setting;3 in fact, the Black-Scholes pricing formula for European options derived in Schwartz
and Smith (1997) can be shown to be valid in our setting as well because the models only
di er by a deterministic seasonal component. Although the seasonal model of agricultural
commodity futures dynamics has potential use in this context, we have no conceptual con-
tributions to this discussion and, therefore, will not pursue this line of research.
    The paper is organized as follows. The basic model and the state space estimation ap-
proach are described in section 2 and section 3 presents the data. The estimation results
are presented and discussed in section 4 where the precise construction and estimation of
convenience yields used in the empirical analysis of the Kaldor-Working hypothesis is also
two-factor model in this paper and the Gibson and Schwartz (1990) model in the sense that in both models
convenience yields are aÆne functions of a mean-reverting Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process.
   3
     See also Brennan and Schwartz (1985), Gibson and Schwartz (1990), Jamshidian and Fein (1990), Bjerk-
sund (1991), Cortazar and Schwartz (1994), Dixit and Pindyck (1994), Schwartz and Smith (1997), Hilliard
and Reis (1998), and Miltersen and Schwartz (1998) for advances on no-arbitrage models with a focus on the
valuation of commodity contingent claims, such as real options, and hedging.



                                                    4
provided. Section 5 concludes.

2 The model and estimation methodology
In this section we will present the basic model of agricultural commodity price dynamics,
derive the relevant formulas for the pricing of futures contracts, and describe the estimation
approach that will be used in the empirical analysis.
2.1   Commodity price dynamics

The logarithm of the commodity spot price pt = log Pt is modeled as the sum of a deterministic
seasonal component described by a function of time only and two state-variables xt and zt .
Formally, we assume that
                                    pt = s(t) + xt + zt                                    (1)
where
                                X
                                K
                         s(t) = ( k cos (2kt) + k sin(2kt))                             (2)
                                  k   =1
with K determining the number of terms in the sum and k ; k ; k = 1; : : : ; K , being constant
parameters to be estimated. Time is measured in years and, hence, the rst term in the sum
repeats itself with a yearly frequency; the second term has a half-yearly frequency and so on.
The speci c form of the seasonal component was suggested by Hannan, Terrell and Tuckwell
(1970) as an alternative to standard dummy variable methods of modeling seasonality. This
way of modeling seasonality is chosen because it eases the exibility of dealing with time in
the determination and handling of futures term structures in the empirical analysis.
   The dynamics of xt and zt are described by a system of di erential equations on the form:
                                 dxt = (     1 2
                                              2  ) dt +  dW1t                             (3)
                                      dzt = zt dt + v dW2t                               (4)
The Wiener processes W1t and W2t are assumed correlated with constant correlation coef-
 cient , and it is assumed that the standard ltration generated by the two-dimensional
Wiener-process (W1t ; W2t ) describes all the information available in the economy.
    The state-variable xt follows a non-stationary Wiener process with constant drift and
di usion parameters, which can be thought of as the logarithm of a geometric di usion
process with constant drift rate  and constant di usion rate , as used to model asset price
                                                5
dynamics in the standard Black-Scholes option pricing set-up. The state-variable zt follows an
Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process with constant parameters  and v; for  > 0 this is a stationary
process.
    The basic idea in the above modeling of intertemporal commodity price behavior is that
s(t) captures price movements that are entirely related to the season, the state-variable xt
captures permanent price changes due to permanent changes in supply or demand while zt
captures temporary price changes due to temporary changes in supply or demand. Besides the
seasonal component the model is basically identical to the model suggested by Schwartz and
Smith (1997). In the context of real exchange rates, Srensen (1997) demonstrates that the
above kind of commodity price behavior is consistent with equilibrium (and, hence, excludes
arbitrage opportunities) in a two-good general equilibrium model where the interest rate may
be constant or stochastic and risk premia are constant.4 In principle, the equilibrium model
of Srensen (1997) can be viewed as an analogue to the Cox, Ingersoll, and Ross (1985)
model which is set up so as to support a speci c no-arbitrage model of the term structure
of interest rates. This puts the above modeling on solid ground and at least compatible
with for example the no-arbitrage models in Schwartz (1997), Hilliard and Reis (1998), and
Schwartz and Miltersen (1998). However, it is a potential drawback that the dynamic general
equilibrium model in Srensen (1997) is based on a pure-exchange economy and, hence,
the commodity price dynamics are not derived as an equilibrium outcome of a model that
incorporates intertemporal production, consumption, and especially inventory decisions by
economic agents in a sense that captures the basic ideas in the theory of storage in a realistic
and meaningful way.5
2.2     Futures prices

Under the so-called equivalent martingale measure, which is relevant for pricing and denoted
here by Q, the dynamics of the two state-variables xt and zt are assumed described by
                                dxt = (    1 2
                                           2  ) dt +  dW1t                             (5)
                                                          Q


                               dzt = (z + zt ) dt + v dW2Qt                            (6)
   4
     For the remaining analysis we will thus assume constant risk premia and not make any speci c assumptions
on the interest rate dynamics.
   5
     For recent advances in the theory of asset price dynamics in the spirit of the ideas in the theory of storage;
see e.g. Wright and Williams (1989), Williams and Wright (1991), Deaton and Laroque (1992, 1996), Chambers
and Bailey (1996), Routledge, Seppi, and Spatt (1998, 1999).


                                                        6
where =  x, and x; z are constant market prices of risk associated with xt and zt ,
respectively. Moreover, W1Qt and W2Qt describes the Wiener-processes under Q.
    Cox, Ingersoll and Ross (1981) have shown that the futures price on a futures contract
expiring at time  ,   t, can be determined by taking the expectations under Q of the
 nal settlement price (the spot price at time  , P = es( )+x +z ).6 Let Ft ( ) denote the
futures price at time t on a futures contract that expires at time  . By taking the relevant
expectations,                       h                                  i
                       Ft ( ) = exp s( ) + A( t) + xt + zt e ( t)                      (7)
where
                                      z v                    v2
              A( t) = ( t)                   (1   e ( t) ) + (1 e 2( t) )
                                                               4
An important feature of the model is that log-futures prices are aÆne functions of the two
state-variables xt and zt ; a fact that facilitates a standard state space formulation of the
model.
2.3    State space estimation approach

An applicable method for maximum likelihood estimation of the above model is by stating the
problem in state space form and by using the Kalman lter in an error prediction decomposi-
tion of the log-likelihood function. Harvey (1989) has an extensive description of estimation,
testing, and model selection of models in state space form which is basically applied below.
    The state space form consists of a transition equation and a measurement equation. The
transition equation describes the stochastic evolvement of an unobserved vector of state-
variables. In our case the unobserved state-variables are xt and zt and the transition equation
is the discrete version of the system of equations (3) and (4). In general, the measurement
equation relates the unobserved state-variables to a vector of observables. In our case, we
observe term structures of futures prices at di erent dates and the measurement equation
relates these observations to xt and zt through the relation established in (7). Below, we will
state the formal form of the transition equation and the measurement equation used for our
purposes.
    The data is sampled at equidistante time points tn; n = 1; : : : ; N , and  = tn+1 tn
denotes the distance between any two observation dates. Let Xn = (xtn ; ztn )0 denote the
   6
     It is a well-known fact that, by an application of the Feynman-Kac formula, the futures price can equiva-
lently be evaluated as the solution to a speci c partial di erential equation, see e.g. DuÆe (1996).


                                                      7
unobserved state-vector at time tn. Formally, the transition equation has the following form:7
                                         Xn+1 = a + AXn + n                                             (8)
where n; n = 1; : : : ; N are independently normally distributed with zero mean-vector and
covariance matrix  and where
          0              1          0         1        0                                          1
                 1 2                1   0                       2           v
                                                                                    (1    e  
                                                                                                )
     a=@          2 A; A = @                  A;  = @                                           A
                 0                    0 e                v
                                                            
                                                               (1      e 
                                                                            )   v
                                                                                2 (1
                                                                                    2
                                                                                         e  2 )

    The measurement equation relates the unobserved state-variables to observations of fu-
tures prices through the established relation in (7). Let ft( ) = log Ft ( ) and note that the
established relationship between ft( ) and the unobserved state-variables    
                                                                                    is linear and there-
fore ts into a standard state space form. Furthermore, let Zn = ftn (n1); : : : ; ftn (nMn )
denote the set of (log-) futures prices observed at time tn and with maturities n1; : : : ; nMn .
Note that we, in contrast to e.g. Schwartz (1997), allow the dimensionality of the measurement
equation, Mn, to vary since the number of futures contracts traded and quoted is changing
over time and over the relevant sample period. The measurement equation has the following
form:
                                        Zn = cn + Cn Xn + n                                         (9)
where n; n = 1; : : : ; N are independently normally distributed with zero mean-vector and
covariance matrix Hn and in our analysis
               0                            1         0                       1
                     s(n1 ) + A(n1 tn )                1     e (n tn )
                                                                         1



         cn = B
               B
               B
                                ...         C
                                            C ; Cn = B
                                            C         B .
                                                      B ..
                                                                    ...       C
                                                                              C ; Hn = 2 In
                                                                              C
               @                            A         @                       A
                   s(nMn ) + A(nMn tn )                1 e (nMn tn )
where In is the identity matrix with dimension following from the context. The term n allows
for noise in the sampling of data and the simple form of the covariance matrix H (with only
one parameter ) is chosen mainly for the presentation of results in the next section.8
    The estimation of a model in state space form by maximum likelihood is standard and
described in e.g. Harvey (1989), Chapter 3. Let Znjn 1 denote the conditional expectations
   7
     This follows from solving equations (3) and (4).
   8
     We carried out estimations for more general structures of H where the entries were speci ed as parame-
terized functions of the time to maturity for the observed futures contracts as well. The more advanced forms
for H , however, did not e ect substantially the results obtained.


                                                     8
of Zn and let Fn denote the conditional variance of Zn conditional on information available at
time tn 1. Then, Znjn 1 and Fn can be obtained recursively by an application of the Kalman
  lter and the so-called prediction error decomposition of the log-likelihood function takes the
form:
       l(Z1 ; : : : ; ZN ; ) = l(Z1 ; )
                                        XN
                                            Mn
                                               log 2 
                                                       1X N
                                                             log j Fn j
                                                                        1X N
                                                                              !n0 Fn 1 !n    (10)
                                        n=2
                                             2         2 n=2
                                                                        2 n=2

where l(Z1 ; ) is the unconditional log-likelihood function for Z1 and !n = Zn Znjn 1 is the
n'th prediction error. summarizes the set of parameters to be estimated by maximizing
(10). In the construction of l(Z1 ; ) we have followed a standard approach for dealing with
a stationary and non-stationary state-variable and assumed that zt is initially distributed
according to its steady state distribution while the starting value of xt (i.e. x1) is treated as
an extra parameter to be estimated.

3 Data
The parameters of the above model are estimated separately for three di erent agricultural
commodities. The dataset consists of weekly observations of futures prices on corn, soybean,
and wheat from CBOT in the period January 1972 to July 1997. The futures prices involved
are settlement prices at CBOT for Wednesdays (or Tuesday if Wednesday is unavailable).
In fact, settlement prices are available on a daily basis but the weekly sampling frequency
is chosen mainly to reduce problems due to microstructure issues such as for example daily
price limits imposed by CBOT.
    The futures for corn and wheat have ve expiration months: March, May, July, September,
and December. CBOT soybean futures have 7 expiration months: January, March, May, July,
August, September, and November. At any particular date, more than (or less than) 5 (7)
futures contracts on corn and wheat (soybean) may be traded since for example futures with
expiration in July this year and next year may be traded simultaneously.
    In the estimation approach we need the times to maturity for the di erent futures con-
tracts at the di erent sample dates. The contractual terms at CBOT specify that physical
delivery (in the form of an inventory receipt) may occur at any business day throughout the
expiration month and, hence, that the last delivery day is the last business day of the month.
However, the last trading day of the futures contract is the seventh business day preceding
the last business day of the delivery month. Since the last trading day is the last day that a
                                               9
contract can in principle be closed at CBOT without physical delivery, we have chosen this
day as the expiration date when constructing the times to maturity for the involved futures
contracts in the estimations presented in the next section.
    In this section, we will describe the basic features of the data by tabulating some summary
statistics and by illustration of the time series behavior of the data over the sampling period.
We will be brief in our discussion of the issues involved; the formal empirical analysis is
discussed in the next section.
    Table 1 provides summary statistics with respect to the involved futures contracts for
corn and Table 2 and Table 3 provide similar summary statistics for soybean futures and
wheat futures.
             [ INSERT TABLE 1, TABLE 2, AND TABLE 3 ABOUT HERE ]
The tables state the mean and standard deviation of all the futures contracts in the dataset
for the three di erent agricultural commodities. In addition, the tables provide summary
statistics for the futures contracts categorized into expirations months as well as the time
to maturity of the contracts. In the following the terminology 1. closest maturity is used as
notation for the futures contract that has the shortest time to maturity at a given sample
date; the 2. closest maturity represents the futures contract with the second shortest time to
maturity, and so on.
    The tables indicate at least two important and basic features of the agricultural commod-
ity futures prices: (i) futures prices display a seasonal pattern and, (ii) the variations of long
futures prices are lower than short futures prices.
    The seasonal patterns are indicated by the mean futures prices for the di erent expiration
months in Table 1, Table 2, and Table 3. For corn futures and soybean futures the mean
futures prices have a peak in July and reach a bottom in December/November. For wheat
futures the mean futures prices reach a peak in March and a bottom in July.
    The lower variation of futures prices with a long time to maturity compared to futures
prices with a short time to maturity is suggested by the di erent standard deviations for the
futures prices grouped into their time to maturity in Table 1, Table 2, and Table 3. In all
the tables the standard deviations are decreasing for increasing maturities. This pattern is
consistent with the \Samuelson hypothesis" and persistent within all tables. Note, however,
that the very small standard deviations for the longest maturities to some extent merely
re ect that the data for these contracts are sampled only over short continuous time periods.

                                               10
Hence, it may only make sense to compare the maturities for which we have observations at
all 1335 sample dates but, anyhow, the pattern is evident.
    The time series aspects of the data are illustrated by Figure 1, Figure 2, and Figure 3.
            [ INSERT FIGURE 1, FIGURE 2, AND FIGURE 3 ABOUT HERE ]
In the gures we have graphed the time-series for the 1. closest maturity and the time-series
for the 4. closest (5. closest) maturity for corn futures and wheat futures (soybean futures);
these represent the shortest maturity series and longest maturity series for which we have
observations at each sample date. A visual inspection of the gures suggests that the time
series for the 1. closest maturity is slightly more volatile than the 4. closest (and 5. closest)
maturity time series. Again, this is in line with the \Samuelson hypothesis" and a feature of
the agricultural commodity prices which is captured in the formal modeling in section 2 by
including a stationary state-variable besides the deterministic seasonal component.
    Another feature of the data which is suggested by Table 1, Table 2, and Table 3 is
a seasonal component in futures price volatilities. The standard deviations in the tables
are thus lowest (highest) for the futures contracts which have the lowest (highest) mean
levels, although this is not exactly true for soybean futures.9 In our formal modeling, the
seasonal component a ect the level of commodity prices through multiplication10 and, hence,
in principle gives rise to a pattern as exhibited by the standard deviations of the absolute
commodity futures price levels in the tables. Anyhow, modeling a seasonal in volatilities is
an interesting topic for future research but outside the scope of this paper.

4 Empirical results
In this section the estimation results are presented and discussed. Furthermore, in our discus-
sion we use the Kalman lter to lter out estimates of convenience yields and provide some
empirical evidence on the Kaldor-Working hypothesis which predicts a negative relationship
between convenience yields and levels of inventories.
   9
     Note also in this context that the contracts which have the smallest standard deviations are those expiring
just after the harvesting periods and those which are typically open one year forth (which is re ected in the
relatively large number of futures contract observations in the di erent tables for these expiration months).
Hence, since these contracts on average tend to have relatively long times to maturity, the small standard
deviations for these contracts can in part be explained by the \Samuelson hypothesis."
  10
     Since the seasonal component in (2) enters additively in the description of the logarithm to the spot price
in (1).


                                                      11
4.1    Parameter estimates

The parameter estimates obtained from the state space estimation approach are tabulated in
Table 4.
                             [ INSERT TABLE 4 ABOUT HERE ]
We will begin by discussing the estimates of the parameters that describe the dynamics of the
stationary and non-stationary state-variables and the parameters added in the state space
formulation of the model. Subsequently, we focus on the parameters describing the seasonal
components in the futures prices.
    The parameter  describes the expected appreciation rate of the non-stationary state-
variable; as formalized in (3). Changes in xt are associated with permanent price changes
and looking at the point estimates in Table 4 all estimates of  are of the same magnitude
(4.16% for corn to 5.31% for wheat). However, due to the relatively high standard deviations
on the parameter estimates, none are signi cantly di erent from zero.
    The estimates in Table 4 indicate that the mean-reversion parameter  is positive and,
hence, that the state-variable zt , with dynamics as described in (4), is indeed stationary for
all the involved commodities. The estimates of  are also of the same magnitude and range
from 0.7640 for wheat to 1.0366 for soybeans corresponding to half-lives of 0.9073 years and
0.6687 years, respectively.11
    Likewise, the volatility structures of the three commodity futures contracts are very sim-
ilar. The volatilities of the non-stationary component, x, vary in the close range from
0.1584 (corn) to 0.1794 (wheat) while the volatilities of the stationary component, z , are
consistently estimated higher for the three commodities and range closely from 0.2201 (corn)
to 0.2363 (soybean). Moreover, the \instantaneous" correlation coeÆcient, , between the
non-stationary state-variable and the stationary state-variable is negative for all the three
commodities.
    The risk premia inherent in the speci c futures prices are re ected in the estimates of z
and  (= x). No clear pattern is obvious in a comparison of the risk premia estimates
across the three commodities although the implied estimates of x are of the same order
of size (from 0.0559 for wheat to 0.0802 for corn). On the other hand, the risk premia
associated with the stationary components (i.e. z ) tend to be negative but the risk premium
  11
    The half-lives express the time it takes before a given shock to the process is expected to have leveled o
by half of the shock; the half-live is in the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck case calculated as (1=) log 2.


                                                      12
for corn futures is seemingly signi cantly di erent from the risk premium associated with the
stationary component in wheat futures and no clear pattern is evident in a comparison across
commodities.
    For the di erent commodities, the sum of the two risk premia parameters x and z de-
scribes the \instantaneous" expected excess return on an investment that have the same risk
as the spot commodity price (or a long position in a maturing futures contract). Likewise,
these two parameters determine whether futures prices display contango or normal back-
wardation in the sense that futures prices are below or above expected future spot prices,
respectively. Futures prices can be determined by the formula in equation (7) while expected
future spot prices can be determined by the analog without risk premia. Inserting the ob-
tained point estimates, Figure 4 displays the futures price divided by the expected future
spot price for a given futures contract at di erent time points. Note that since risk premia
are constant, the ratio of the futures price to the expected future spot price is a function of
the time to maturity only and, hence, the gure also indicates the ratio of the futures price
to the expected future spot price for contracts with di erent times to maturity. As seen from
the gure and implied by the estimates, normal backwardation is the situation for soybeans
and wheat. For corn the case is mixed: normal backwardation seems to be the case for long
contract maturities while contango seems to the case for short contract maturities.
    The parameters x1 and  are added in the state space formulation of the problem, as de-
scribed in section 2.3. x1 is the estimated starting value of the non-stationary state-variable
and while this parameter simply indicates the level of the logarithm of the commodity price
in the beginning of the estimation period, it is interesting that the standard deviation on the
x1 estimate for soybean futures is very large. In fact, looking at the correlation matrix of
the parameter estimates (not reported here but provided by the GAUSSTM maximum likeli-
hood procedures used for the estimation), the correlation coeÆcients between the parameter
estimates on x1 and z are numerically very high, especially for soybean futures (-0.978).
This is also re ected in the large standard deviation on the z estimate for soybeans, and it
indicates an identi cation problem related to the speci c parameters and the chosen model
structure in the case of soybeans. Furthermore, this might in part explain the unclear pattern
in the estimates of the risk premia associated with the stationary components, z , across the
commodities in Table 4.
    The estimates of  describe the inferred standard deviations on the \noise terms" that
allow for some deviation between theoretical and observed (log-) futures prices in the state

                                              13
space formulation of the model. The point estimates are of the same order of magnitude
and vary from 1.71 percent for the corn futures prices to 1.87 percent for the soybean futures
prices. One important source of observation \noise" in the speci c data is that the settlement
prices are set by the regulators at CBOT and thus do not necessarily exactly match market
prices at which trading did in fact occur. Other related sources of measurement \noise",
in this context, include e ects due to price limits and handling of bid-ask spreads; errors
in the registration of data could be another source of measurement \noise". Whether these
sources of measurement \noise" can account for a standard deviation  just below 2 percent
is questionable, and this indicates the relevance of extending the model to include additional
state-variables for example by allowing for stochastic volatility in the seasonality modeling
framework. This, however, would also require additional data that could make inference on
this kind of extended model possible (such as commodity options). Anyhow, the estimates
of  are somehow in line with the estimates in Schwartz (1997). Schwartz (1997) keeps
the dimension of the measurement equation constant and estimates the standard deviation
of the individual \noise terms" separately (i.e. his representation of the covariance matrix
of the measurement error, Hn in (9), is a diagonal matrix with di erent parameters in the
diagonal). For example, in his two-factor model the estimate on the \noise term" standard
deviation for the shortest oil contract is 2.2 percent in his full sample estimation using ve
oil futures contracts at each observation date; the similar estimates reported for copper and
gold are 3.3 percent and 0.3 percent, respectively.
     The estimated seasonal components are described by the estimates of 1, 1, 2, and 2 .
The number of terms in the sum that describes s(t) as in (2) are K = 2 in the estimates
reported in Table 4; the model was also estimated for other values of K and the choice of K
= 2 was based on the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC); see e.g. Harvey (1981), p. 176.
     The forms of the estimated seasonal components are displayed in Figure 5.
                          [ INSERT FIGURE 5 ABOUT HERE ]
For corn and soybean the deterministic seasonal price components peak in June and July
about two to three months prior to the beginning of the harvest of those commodities, which
occur from mid to late September and through October. The harvesting season for wheat is
earlier due to the winter wheat which is usually harvested in late spring and early summer and
accounts for more than 70 percent of the US wheat production; spring wheat is harvested from
September through October. The estimation results suggest that the seasonal component in

                                             14
wheat prices peaks in March-April which is about two months prior to the winter wheat
harvest.12
    In general, the deterministic seasonal components for the three commodities, as displayed
in Figure 5, peak about two to three months before the beginning of the harvest. In the period
until the end of the harvest the seasonal price component decreases and, hence, ceteris paribus
the convenience yield on the commodity must be high if the marginal investors carrying
inventory positions have to break even in this period. In the period before the harvest
inventories are usually scarce and this is a period where an owner of inventories may gain from
temporary unexpected high demands for the speci c commodity or adverse weather conditions
which will reduce the size of the crop and the supply of next year. These observations are
consistent with the Kaldor-Working hypothesis that predicts a negative relationship between
the convenience yield and the stock of inventory of a given commodity.
4.2    Empirical evidence on the Kaldor-Working hypothesis

In this section we will provide a more extensive empirical analysis of the Kaldor-Working
hypothesis by regressing estimated (net) convenience yields on stocks of inventory for corn,
soybean, and wheat. We will start by describing how the (net) convenience yields for the
regression analysis are constructed using our modeling framework from section 2.
     As noted earlier, the convenience yield of a commodity may be de ned as the value of the
services which accrues to the owner of physical inventory but not to the owner of a contract
for future delivery; hence, the convenience yield will be re ected in the spread between the
spot commodity price (or a very short maturity futures price) and the longer maturity futures
prices. Moreover, the owner of physical inventory can alternatively earn interest on the capital
invested in the physical inventory. The net convenience yield is de ned as the convenience
yield plus the interest forgone by having capital invested in physical inventory. Formally, as
a de nition of the net convenience yield at time t and over the next period of length , we
will use
                            Æt () = rt ()
                                             log Ft (t + ) log Ft (t)                     (11)
                                                         
where rt() is the appropriate interest rate (i.e. zero-coupon yield) between t and t +  and
Ft (t) must equal the spot commodity price. This de nition is equivalent to the usual textbook
  12
    This and additional information on growth cycles and critical periods of weather in uence on crop sizes
of corn, soybeans, and wheat can be found in the CBOT General Information Series, No. 6-8.



                                                    15
de nition (see e.g. Hull (2000), pp. 72-73) where the convenience yield is de ned implicitly
by the cost of carry relation: Ft (t + ) = Ft (t)e(rt() Æt()). In the above de nition
of convenience yields we have ignored storage costs and, consequently, the net convenience
yields estimated subsequently are downward biased; implications of this for the interpretation
of results in the empirical analysis of the Kaldor-Working hypothesis are discussed later.
    Inserting the expression for futures prices in (7) into the de nition (11), we obtain the
following description of the convenience yield over the next period :
                                   s(t + ) s(t) A() 1                        
                  Æt () = rt ()                             +       1   e  zt              (12)
                                                        
Besides the seasonal component, the convenience yield depends on a deterministic risk com-
ponent and the current position of the stationary state-variable zt . The convenience yield is
negatively related to the slope of the seasonal component since owners of inventory positions,
ceteris paribus, must experience a high (low) convenience yield to compensate for an ex-
pected commodity spot price depreciation (appreciation). The deterministic risk component,
A()=, depends on risk premia as well as volatilities through the e ects of Jensen's inequal-
ity. Anyhow, for a xed  (as in the regressions below) this enters as a constant term in the
cross-section of convenience yields for a given commodity and, hence, should not matter for
inference about the validity of a negative relationship between convenience yields and stocks
of inventory, as predicted by the Kaldor-Working hypothesis. Finally, the convenience yield
is positively related to the stationary state-variable zt . If zt is positive, the expected rate of
change in zt is negative (due to mean-reversion of the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process), and once
again the intuition is that owners of inventory positions, ceteris paribus, must experience a
high convenience yield to compensate for the expected commodity spot price depreciation;
and vice versa for negative values of zt .
    The following empirical analysis of the Kaldor-Working hypothesis is based on three-
months ( = 0.25) net convenience yields. Since the convenience yield is an aÆne function
of the state-variables we have used the state space formulation and the Kalman lter to
estimate the three-month convenience yields at the relevant dates. As described in for example
Harvey (1989), the Kalman lter in this case provides the conditional expectations of the
state-variables recursively given all information available at the given points in time. The
interest rates used in constructing net convenience yields are based on three-month Treasury
bill rates obtained from the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago.

                                                16
       Formally, we ran the following non-linear regression:13
                                      Æt (0:25) = a + b (It =Qt )c + ut                                   (13)
where a, b, and c (as well as the standard deviation u of the \white noise" term ut) are
constant parameters to be estimated. The independent variable It =Qt in (13) is inventories
at date t, It, normalized by total US production Qt. The data on stocks of inventory is
taken from various issues of the USDA Statistical Bulletin. The data on stocks of inventory
are available on a quarterly basis from 1972 until 1997 but the precise months for which the
inventories are recorded and announced have changed over the period. Hence, for soybeans we
have stocks of inventory recorded for the following months: January, March, April, June, July,
September, and December. For corn and wheat there are additionally observations recorded
for October in some of the years. Qt is constructed as a three-year average of the oÆcially
announced US production in the three years prior to time t. The dependent variable is the
  ltered three-month net convenience yield; speci cally, this variable is constructed as the
average of the ltered net convenience yields, using (12), for the second and third Wednesday
for the particular months for which the stocks of inventory It have been recorded.
     Regression results obtained by the method of non-linear least squares are tabulated in
Tables 5 and the data and \ tted" relationships between ltered convenience yields and stocks
of inventory are displayed in Figure 6, Figure 7, and Figure 8.
        [ INSERT TABLE 5, FIGURE 6, FIGURE 7, AND FIGURE 8 ABOUT HERE ]
The estimation results tabulated in Table 5 include both results from the regression equation
(13) as well as a seasonal adjusted version which include dummy variables indicating the
observation months. The most interesting parameter, in our context and in the context of
the Kaldor-Working hypothesis, is b which is predicted to be negative (whenever c > 0).
For all commodities in the unadjusted regressions the parameter b is, in fact, negative and
signi cantly di erent from zero. In the seasonally adjusted regressions b is negative, but not
signi cant in the case of wheat due to multicollinearity in this particular regression.
    The explanatory power of the non-linear regression model in (13) is re ected in the co-
eÆcients of multiple correlation, R2, as reported in Table 5. The coeÆcients of multiple
  13
    The speci c form of the regression used to examine the validity of the Kaldor-Working hypothesis is similar
to the form used by Brennan (1991) in the case of three precious metals and the commercial commodities:
copper, heating oil, lumber, and plywood.


                                                      17
correlation are of the same magnitude as for the commercial commodities in the framework
of Brennan (1991), but higher than for the case of heating oil (R2 = 0.17) which is reported to
display a clear seasonal pattern that is not taken care of the way he estimates the convenience
yield.14 The higher explanatory power compared to the case of heating oil in Brennan (1991)
can thus be explained by the fact that in the present framework the seasonal feature of con-
venience yields are explicitly modeled and in principle taken care of when using (12) to lter
out the relevant convenience yields.
    The relationships between convenience yields and inventories are suggested negative by
the regression results in Table 5. However, following the reasoning behind the Kaldor-Working
hypothesis, one would conjecture that convenience yields are especially high for very low levels
of stocks of inventory while leveling of at zero for very high levels of stocks of inventory. This
suggest that the estimated functional forms should turn out to be convex, as is only the case
for soybeans in Figure 7. In the estimation of net convenience yields we have ignored storage
costs and, as a consequence, the ltered net convenience yields are downward biased by the
storage costs. Furthermore, if there are suÆciently increasing marginal costs of storage this
could explain the functional forms estimated for corn and wheat, as displayed in Figure 6
and Figure 8. Fama and French (Table 2, p. 59, 1987) report storage costs and costs of
loading and unloading various commodities at warehouses for June 1984 (which is about in
the middle of our sample period). The monthly storage costs per dollar of the June 1984 spot
price are reported to be: 1.41% for corn, 0.64% for soybeans, and 1.39% for wheat. Or, on an
annualized basis: 18.30% for corn, 7.96% for soybeans, and 18.02% for wheat. Storage costs
are variable over time and depend on the aggregate quanta that need to be stored but these
annualized storage costs indicate the order of magnitude that should be added to the ltered
convenience yields in order to re ect the total costs of carry. This explains, we believe, why
some of the ltered convenience yields, as displayed in Figure 6, Figure 7, and Figure 8, are
substantially negative. Moreover, the gures are consistent with higher storage costs on corn
and wheat than soybeans since the lower bound on convenience yields is less negative in the
case of soybeans.
    What can be inferred from the seasonal adjusted regressions? The Kaldor-Working hy-
pothesis only relates convenience yields to stocks of inventory, not to the season. However,
  14
    This is pointed out by Brennan (1991, p. 66, line 1{2 and footnote 23). However, note also that the exact
construction of the independent variable in Brennan (1991) is di erent from the construction in our analysis.
In particular, he uses sales instead of production when normalizing inventories.


                                                     18
the outlook for opportunities to pro t from temporary shortages of a commodity, seen from
the viewpoint of an owner of a given inventory position, might well depend on whether the
harvesting period is coming up or not. The seasonal adjusted regressions contain twenty ad-
ditional dummy variables and only one parameter is signi cantly di erent from zero at a ve
percent signi cance level (the July dummy variable for corn). However, F -test probabilities
under the null hypothesis that the dummy variable parameters are all zero are 0.7% for corn,
3.4% for soybean, and less than 0.1% for wheat; hence, the null hypothesis is rejected on a
  ve percent signi cance level for all the involved commodities. This indicates at least some
relevance of an interaction e ect between convenience yields, stocks of inventory, and the
season; this is also indicated by the higher corrected R2 s which make some allowance for the
extra explanatory dummy variables included in the seasonally adjusted regressions. Further-
more, the point estimates of the dummy parameters indicate that for a given level of stocks
of inventory, the convenience yields are higher just prior to the harvesting periods; this is
suggested by the relatively high point estimates on the July dummy for corn, the July dummy
for soybean, and the April dummy for wheat. An interpretation and perspective on this ob-
servation is that this is a period where adverse weather conditions are able to severely reduce
crop sizes and make abrupt changes in the anticipated supply for the following year, which
will make a given inventory position particularly convenient and appreciated for example in
order to keep a production process running.

5 Summary and conclusions
We have provided a framework for estimating model parameters, and especially seasonal
parameters, using both the time-series characteristics and cross-sectional characteristics of
agricultural commodity futures prices. Estimation results were provided in the case of corn,
soybeans, and wheat using weekly panel-data observations of futures prices from CBOT for
the period 1972 to 1997. Besides the estimated seasonal features the estimation results sug-
gested that normal backwardation is the situation for soybeans and wheat while the situation
for corn is mixed: normal backwardation seems to the case for long contract maturities while
contango seems to be the case for short contract maturities.
    Using the basic modeling framework allowed us to estimate implied net convenience yields
using the Kalman lter and this was applied in an empirical investigation of the theory of
storage and, in particular, the Kaldor-Working hypothesis that convenience yields and levels

                                              19
of inventories are negatively related. The empirical analysis veri ed a signi cant negative
relationship
    Future research could extend the basic continuous-time no-arbitrage model in various
ways by introducing for example stochastic volatility or discontinuities (jumps) in the com-
modity price process as well as a seasonality feature in the volatilities. In this case, it seems
that estimation of the model could bene t from including additional data such as prices on
commodity options. While a state space formulation of the model could in this case still be
possible and relevant for estimation, the standard Kalman lter maximum likelihood method-
ology would have to be modi ed in order to account for the non-linearities introduced by e.g.
including option prices.
    Finally, the empirical analysis of the theory of storage and the Kaldor-Working hypothesis
indicates interesting basic issues that may bene t and be better understood by analysis in
a formal equilibrium framework. These issues include the interactions of convenience yields,
stocks of inventory, the production cycle, and season.




                                               20
References
Bessembinder, H.; J. F. Coughenour; P. J. Seguin; and M. M. Smoller (1995). \Mean Rever-
    sion in Equilibrium Asset Prices: Evidence from the Futures Term Structure". Journal
    of Finance, 50(1), 361{375.

Bessembinder, H.; J. F. Coughenour; P. J. Seguin; and M. M. Smoller (1996). \Is There
    a Term Structure of Futures Volatilities? Reevaluating the Samuelson Hypothesis".
    Journal of Derivatives, 4, 45{58.

Bjerksund, P. (1991). \Contingent Claims Evaluation when the Convenience Yield is Stochas-
    tic: Analytical Results". Working paper, Norwegian School of Economics and Business
    Administration.
Brennan, M. J. (1958). \The Supply of Storage". American Economic Review, 48, 50{72.
Brennan, M. J. (1991). \The Price of Convenience and the Valuation of Commodity Contin-
    gent Claims". In D. Lund & B. ksendal (eds.), Stochastic Models and Option Values,
    pp. 33{71. Elsevier Science Publishers B.V. (North-Holland).
Brennan, M. J. and E. S. Schwartz (1985). \Evaluating Natural Resource Investments".
    Journal of Business, 58, 133{155.

Chambers, M. and R. Bailey (1996). \A Theory of Commodity Price Fluctuations". Journal
    of Political Economy, 104, 924{957.

Chicago Board of Trade (1997). Weather and the Corn Market. (Chicago Board of Trade,
    General Information Series 6).
Chicago Board of Trade (1997). Weather and the Soybean Market. (Chicago Board of Trade,
    General Information Series 7).
Chicago Board of Trade (1997). Weather and the Wheat Market. (Chicago Board of Trade,
    General Information Series 8).
Cortazar, G. and E. S. Schwartz (1994). \The Evaluation of Commodity Contingent Claims".
    Journal of Derivatives, 1, 27{39.

Cox, J. C.; J. E. Ingersoll, Jr.; and S. A. Ross (1981). \The Relation between Forward Prices
    and Futures Prices". Journal of Financial Economics, 9(4), 321{346.
                                             21
Cox, J. C.; J. E. Ingersoll, Jr.; and S. A. Ross (1985). \A Theory of the Term Structure of
    Interest Rates". Econometrica, 53(2), 385{407.
Deaton, A. and G. Laroque (1992). \On the Behavior of Commodity Prices". Review of
    Economic Studies, 59, 1{23.

Deaton, A. and G. Laroque (1996). \Competitive Storage and Commodity Price Dynamics".
    Journal of Political Economy, 104, 896{923.

Dixit, A. K. and R. S. Pindyck (1994). Investment under Uncertainty. Princeton University
    Press, Princeton, New Jersey.
DuÆe, J. D. (1996). Dynamic Asset Pricing Theory. Princeton University Press, Princeton,
   New Jersey, Second Edition.
Fama, E. F. and K. R. French (1987). \Commodity Futures Prices: Some Evidence on
   Forecast Power, Premiums, and the Theory of Storage". Journal of Business, 60(1),
   55{73.
Gibson, R. and E. S. Schwartz (1990). \Stochastic Convenience Yield and the Pricing of Oil
    Contingent Claims". Journal of Finance, 45, 959{976.
Gibson, R. and E. S. Schwartz (1991). \Valuation of Long Term Oil-Linked Assets". In D.
    Lund & B. ksendal (eds.), Stochastic Models and Option Values, pp. 73{101. Elsevier
    Science Publishers B.V. (North-Holland).
Harvey, A. C. (1981). The Econometric Analysis of Time Series. Philip Alan Publishers
    Limited.
Harvey, A. C. (1989). Forecasting, structural time series models and the Kalman lter. Cam-
    bridge University Press.
Hilliard, J. E. and J. Reis (1998). \Valuation of Commodity Futures and Options under
     Stochastic Convenience Yields, Interest Rates, and Jump Di usions in the Spot". Journal
     of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 33, 61{86.

Hull, J. C. (2000). Options, Futures, & Other Derivatives. Prentice-Hall, Upper Saddle River,
    New Jersey, Fourth International Edition.

                                             22
Jamshidian, F. and M. Fein (1990). \Closed-Form Solutions for Oil Futures and European
   Options in the Gibson-Schwartz Model: A Note". Working paper, Merrill Lynch Capital
   Markets.
Kaldor, N. (1939). \Speculation and Economic Stability". Review of Economic Studies, 7,
    1{27.
Miltersen, K. R. and E. S. Schwartz (1998). \Pricing of Options on Commodity Futures
    with Stochastic Term Structures of Convenience Yields and Interest Rates". Journal of
    Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 33, 33{59.

Routledge, B. R.; D. J. Seppi; and C. S. Spatt (1998). \The Spark Spread: An Equilibrium
    Model of Cross-Commodity Price Relationship in Electricity". Working paper, Graduate
    School of Industrial Administration, Carnegie Mellon University.
Routledge, B. R.; D. J. Seppi; and C. S. Spatt (1999). \Equilibrium Forward Curves for
    Commodities". Working paper, Graduate School of Industrial Administration, Carnegie
    Mellon University.
Samuelson, P. (1965). \Proof that Properly Anticipated Prices Fluctuate Randomly". In-
   dustrial Management Review, 6, 41{49.

Schwartz, E. S. (1997). \The Stochastic Behvior of Commodity Prices: Implications for
    Valuation and Hedging". Journal of Finance, 52(3), 923{973.
Schwartz, E. S. and J. E. Smith (1997). \Short-Term Variation and Long-Term Dynamics in
    Commodity Prices". Finance Working Paper #14-97, The John E. Anderson Graduate
    School of Management, University of California, Los Angeles.
Srensen, C. (1997). \An Equilibrium Approach to Pricing Foreign Currency Options".
    European Financial Management, 3(1), 63{84.

Telser, L. G. (1958). \Futures Trading and the Storage of Cotton and Wheat". Journal of
     Political Economy, 66, 233{255.

United States Department of Agriculture. Stocks of Grains, Oilseed, and Hay { Final Esti-
    mates by States. Statistical Bulletin (various years and issues), USDA Economics and
    Statistics Service Crop Report Board.

                                           23
Williams, J. and B. Wright (1991). Storage and Commodity Markets. Cambridge University
    Press, Cambridge, England.
Working, H. (1948). \Theory of the Inverse Carrying Charge in Futures Markets". Journal
   of Farm Economics, 30, 1{28.

Working, H. (1949). \The Theory of the Price of Storage". American Economic Review, 39,
   1254{1262.
Wright, B. and J. Williams (1989). \A Theory of Negative Prices for Storage". Journal of
    Futures Markets, 9, 1{13.




                                          24
                 Table 1: Summary statistics for corn futures



Futures contracts Number of observations Average price Standard deviation
      ALL                 9124              264.17           52.20
                         Grouped into expiration months


Futures contracts Number of observations Average price Standard deviation
      Mar                 1870              263.18           52.14
      May                 1730              267.78           54.47
       Jul                1798              271.42           54.76
      Sep                 1640              262.05           51.88
      Dec                 2086              257.49           47.05
                          Grouped into time to maturity


Futures contracts Number of observations Average price Standard deviation
    1. closest            1335              260.59           60.31
    2. closest            1335              262.74           57.45
    3. closest            1335              264.57           55.41
    4. closest            1335              265.27           53.52
    5. closest            1332              265.19           52.23
    6. closest            1231              267.79           48.57
    7. closest             787              262.33           34.98
    8. closest             261              268.29           19.56
    9. closest             143              261.26           12.12
   10. closest             30               253.73            6.64
Notes : Futures prices are in cents per bushel. The dataset consists of 1335 weekly observa-
tions from 1/2/72 to 7/30/97.




                                            25
               Table 2: Summary statistics for soybean futures



Futures contracts Number of observations Average price Standard deviation
      ALL                11821              640.42          111.28
                         Grouped into expiration months


Futures contracts Number of observations Average price Standard deviation
      Jan                 1688              632.09          109.89
      Mar                 1650              640.51          110.43
      May                 1650              648.89          113.67
       Jul                1856              655.76          112.25
      Aug                 1503              649.04          119.53
      Sep                 1495              633.55          110.71
      Nov                 1979              624.65          100.61
                          Grouped into time to maturity


Futures contracts Number of observations Average price Standard deviation
    1. closest            1335              635.94          123.95
    2. closest            1335              639.70          123.07
    3. closest            1335              641.11          119.70
    4. closest            1335              639.76          116.48
    5. closest            1335              638.95          115.66
    6. closest            1334              638.33          114.25
    7. closest            1315              638.72          110.53
    8. closest            1205              650.86           96.72
    9. closest             823              645.73           75.38
   10. closest             288              640.53           49.48
   11. closest             146              627.01           33.25
   12. closest             28               608.64           14.12
   13. closest              7               604.64            5.16
Notes : Futures prices are in cents per bushel. The dataset consists of 1335 weekly observa-
tions from 1/2/72 to 7/30/97.




                                            26
                Table 3: Summary statistics for wheat futures



Futures contracts Number of observations Average price Standard deviation
      ALL                 8028              357.26           75.26
                         Grouped into expiration months


Futures contracts Number of observations Average price Standard deviation
      Mar                 1571              366.92           78.17
      May                 1479              360.13           77.71
       Jul                1785              347.57           67.86
      Sep                 1503              349.68           75.20
      Dec                 1690              362.74           75.98
                          Grouped into time to maturity


Futures contracts Number of observations Average price Standard deviation
    1. closest            1335              355.29           79.46
    2. closest            1335              356.40           79.00
    3. closest            1335              355.44           77.90
    4. closest            1335              354.63           77.07
    5. closest            1294              357.34           75.69
    6. closest            1043              364.91           66.98
    7. closest             242              357.05           38.71
    8. closest             92               369.34           33.98
    9. closest             17               390.65           19.37
Notes : Futures prices are in cents per bushel. The dataset consists of 1335 weekly observa-
tions from 1/2/72 to 7/30/97.




                                            27
                              Table 4: Parameter estimates


                              Corn futures        Soybean futures   Wheat futures
                                 0.0416               0.0433           0.0531
                                (0.0206)             (0.0267)         (0.0336)
                                 0.7744               1.0366           0.7640
                                (0.0239)             (0.0299)         (0.0333)
                                 0.1585               0.1785           0.1794
                                (0.0052)             (0.0050)         (0.0063)
           v                      0.2201               0.2363           0.2253
                                (0.0077)             (0.0072)         (0.0099)
                                -0.3116              -0.1344          -0.2590
                                (0.0427)             (0.0379)         (0.0523)
                                 -0.0386              -0.0204          -0.0028
                                (0.0025)             (0.0027)         (0.0036)
          z                     -0.1011              -0.0292           0.0002
                                (0.0376)             (0.1472)         (0.0131)
          x1                      4.8738               5.7225           4.9257
                                (0.0558)             (0.1403)         (0.0399)
                                0.0171               0.0187           0.0178
                                (0.0001)             (0.0001)         (0.0002)
            1                    -0.0228              -0.0182           0.0162
                                (0.0003)             (0.0003)         (0.0003)
            1                    0.0081               0.0085           0.0202
                                (0.0003)             (0.0003)         (0.0003)
            2                     0.0029               0.0031          -0.0057
                                (0.0002)             (0.0003)         (0.0003)
            2                    0.0054               0.0058          -0.0081
                                (0.0004)             (0.0002)         (0.0004)
    log-likelihood                21856                27591            18654
       function
Notes : Standard errors in parentheses.




                                             28
         Table 5: Convenience yields regressed on stocks of inventory



                           Corn                       Soybean                   Wheat
        a            0.1427 -0.0354              0.2676 0.2017             0.1930 0.8212
                    (0.0432) (0.1205)          (0.0835) (0.1632)         (0.0446) (7.8039)
         b           -0.2973 -0.2120            -0.4432 -0.4140           -0.2008 -0.7457
                    (0.0482) (0.0477)          (0.0758) (0.0719)         (0.0531) (7.8120)
         c           1.3157 1.6847               0.8653 1.4576             1.8054 0.1032
                    (0.4308) (0.7618)          (0.3771) (0.8368)         (0.6967) (1.1663)
        u           0.1290 0.1146               0.1527 0.1398             0.1401 0.1165
                    (0.0090) (0.0080)          (0.0107) (0.0098)         (0.0098) (0.0081)
       Jan              {        {                  {         {               {       {
       Mar              {        0.0418            {        -0.0932          {         0.0379
                                (0.1163)                   (0.1526)                  (0.1252)
       Apr              {        0.0635            {        -0.0222          {         0.1296
                                (0.1157)                   (0.1525)                  (0.1232)
       Jun              {        0.1727            {        -0.0294          {        -0.0058
                                (0.1152)                   (0.1517)                  (0.1241)
       Jul              {        0.3366            {         0.2622          {        -0.1306
                                (0.1275)                   (0.1654)                  (0.1378)
       Sep              {        0.1844            {        -0.0088          {        -0.1319
                                (0.1201)                   (0.1507)                  (0.1204)
       Oct              {        0.1084            {            {            {        -0.1373
                                (0.1143)                                             (0.1175)
       Dec              {        0.1147            {        0.0546           {        -0.0308
                                (0.1176)                   (0.1572)                  (0.1224)
        R2           0.3605      0.4959         0.3589      0.4629        0.2603      0.4884
       R2            0.3476      0.4466         0.3458      0.4098        0.2455      0.4328
   Number of
  observations         102         102             101       101            103         103
Notes : Standard errors in parentheses. January is the base case month in the seasonally
adjusted regressions. R2 is the coeÆcient of multiple correlation while R 2 is the corrected R2.

                                              29
                      550

                      500

                      450

                      400



   Cents per bushel
                      350

                      300

                      250

                      200

                      150

                      100
                       Jan-71   Jan-75     Jan-79     Jan-83    Jan-87    Jan-91       Jan-95   Jan-99


                                         1. closest maturity     4. closest maturity



Figure 1:                                         The gure displays the futures prices on
                        Time series of corn futures prices.

the contracts with the shortest time to maturity and the fourth shortest time to maturity
over the full sample period.




                                                           30
                      1200

                      1100

                      1000

                       900



   Cents per bushel
                       800

                       700

                       600

                       500

                       400

                       300
                        Jan-71   Jan-75   Jan-79   Jan-83    Jan-87   Jan-91       Jan-95   Jan-99


                                      1. closest maturity    5. closest maturity



Figure 2:                                             The gure displays the futures prices
                        Time series of soybean futures prices.

on the contracts with the shortest time to maturity and the fth shortest time to maturity
over the full sample period.




                                                        31
                      700


                      600


                      500



   Cents per bushel
                      400


                      300


                      200


                      100
                       Jan-71   Jan-75     Jan-79     Jan-83    Jan-87    Jan-91       Jan-95   Jan-99


                                         1. closest maturity     4. closest maturity



Figure 3:                                         The gure displays the futures prices on
                        Time series of wheat futures prices.

the contracts with the shortest time to maturity and the fourth shortest time to maturity
over the full sample period.




                                                           32
                             1.04

                             1.02


 Futures price divided by
                             1.00

                             0.98




expected future spot price
                             0.96

                             0.94

                             0.92

                             0.90
                                0.00           0.20      0.40               0.60      0.80    1.00
                                                                     Time


                                                      Corn       Soybean           Wheat



Figure 4:                      Futures prices divided by expected future spot prices for corn, soybean,

and wheat.     The gure displays the ratio of the futures price to the expected future spot
price as implied by the modeling in section 2 and the estimates in Table 4. The contracts
expire at time  = 1 and the gure displays whether the basis is positive or negative (i.e.
futures price divided by expected spot price is above one or below one) at di erent time
points prior to maturity. The futures prices are obtained from the formula in (7) while the
expected future spot prices are obtained from the analog without risk premia; Ft ( )=Et [P ]
= e x( t) (z =)(1 e   t ) .          (   )




                                                                33
0.03

0.02

0.01

    0

-0.01

-0.02

-0.03

-0.04
          Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr     May   Jun    Jul    Aug     Sep   Oct    Nov    Dec

                                              Months


                                     Corn     Soybean            Wheat


Figure 5: Estimated seasonal patterns for corn, soybean, and wheat.             The gure is
obtained by substituting the parameter estimates in Table 4 into the function s(t), as de ned
in (2).




                                             34
                           0.50

                           0.40

                           0.30




   Net convenience yield
                           0.20

                           0.10

                           0.00

                           -0.10

                           -0.20

                           -0.30
                               0.00   0.20      0.40     0.60       0.80     1.00      1.20   1.40
                                                       Stocks of inventory


                                             Observations          Regression result



Figure 6:                                                                        The gure
                              Normalized inventories and net convenience yields for corn.

displays the sample of corn inventories and ltered net convenience yields and the estimated
(seasonally unadjusted) relationship using the estimates in Table 5.




                                                            35
                           1.20

                           1.00

                           0.80




   Net convenience yield
                           0.60

                           0.40

                           0.20

                           0.00

                           -0.20

                           -0.40
                               0.00   0.10   0.20   0.30   0.40 0.50 0.60 0.70     0.80 0.90   1.00
                                                           Stocks of inventory


                                               Observations         Regression result



Figure 7:                                                                             The
                              Normalized inventories and net convenience yields for soybeans.

 gure displays the sample of soybean inventories and ltered net convenience yields and the
estimated (seasonally unadjusted) relationship using the estimates in Table 5. (The outlier
(It =Qt ; Æt (0:25)) = (0:1313; 1:123) is recorded for June 1973.)




                                                               36
                           0.60

                           0.50

                           0.40




   Net convenience yield
                           0.30

                           0.20

                           0.10

                           0.00

                           -0.10

                           -0.20

                           -0.30
                               0.00   0.20      0.40     0.60       0.80     1.00      1.20   1.40
                                                       Stocks of inventory


                                             Observations          Regression result



Figure 8:                                                                         The gure
                             Normalized inventories and net convenience yields for wheat.

displays the sample of wheat inventories and ltered net convenience yields and the estimated
(seasonally unadjusted) relationship using the estimates in Table 5.




                                                            37
