                                            Chapter 152
                                          Lean Hog Futures
15200.   SCOPE OF CHAPTER
         This chapter is limited in application to Lean Hog futures. In addition to this chapter, Lean Hog
         futures shall be subject to the general rules and regulations of the Exchange insofar as applicable.
         For purposes of this chapter, unless otherwise specified, times referred to herein shall refer to and
         indicate Chicago time.
15201.   CONTRACT SPECIFICATIONS
         Each futures contract shall be valued at 40,000 pounds times the CME Lean Hog Index®.
15202.   TRADING SPECIFICATIONS
         15202.A.        Trading Schedule
         Futures contracts shall be scheduled for trading during such hours and for final settlement in such
         months as may be determined by the Exchange.
         15202.B.        Trading Unit
         The unit of trading shall be 40,000 pounds of lean value hog carcasses.
         15202.C.        Price Increments
         Minimum price fluctuations shall be in multiples of $.00025 per pound.
         15202.D.        Daily Price Limits
         Daily price limits for Lean Hog futures are reset annually on the first trading day in September
         based on the following: Daily settlement prices are collected for the nearest August contract over
         45 consecutive trading days before and including the tenth business day in July (Last Trade Date of
         the nearest July contract). The average price is calculated based on the collected settlement prices
         and then multiplied by 4.5 percent. The resulting number, or $0.03 per pound, whichever is higher,
         rounded down to the nearest $0.0025 per pound, will be the new initial price limits for Lean Hog
         futures and will become effective on the first trading day in September and will remain in effect
         through the last trading day in August of the following year. During the last two days of trading, the
         expiring contract month shall be excluded from triggering expanded limits.
         There shall be no trading in Lean Hog futures at a price more than the initial price limit above or
         below the previous day’s settlement price. Should any Lean Hog futures contract month within the
         first eight listed contracts subject to price limits settle at limit, the daily price limits for all contract
         months shall increase by 50 percent the next business day, rounded down to the nearest $0.0025
         per pound. If none of the first eight listed Lean Hog contracts subject to price limits settles at a price
         change equal to or greater than the initial price limit on the next business day, daily price limits for
         all contract months shall revert back to the initial price limit the following business day. There shall
         be no price limits on the current month contract during the last two trading days.
         15202.E.        Position Limits, Exemptions, Position Accountability and Reportable Levels
         The applicable position limits and/or accountability levels, in addition to the reportable levels, are
         set forth in the Position Limit, Position Accountability and Reportable Level Table in the
         Interpretations & Special Notices Section of Chapter 5.
         A Person seeking an exemption from position limits for bona fide commercial purposes shall apply
         to the Market Regulation Department on forms provided by the Exchange, and the Market
         Regulation Department may grant qualified exemptions in its sole discretion.
         Refer to Rule 559 for requirements concerning the aggregation of positions and allowable
         exemptions from the specified position limits.
15203.   SETTLEMENT PROCEDURES
         15203.A.      Final Settlement
         There shall be no delivery of hogs in settlement of this contract. All contracts open as of the
         termination of trading shall be cash settled based upon the CME Lean Hog Index® for the two–day
         period ending on the day on which trading terminates.
         1. The Sample
         The sample consists of all producer-sold negotiated, swine or pork market formula and negotiated
         formula barrows and gilts purchased on a lean value direct basis by packers for which the head
         count, average net price and average carcass weight are reported in the “National Daily Direct Hog
         Prior Day Report-Slaughtered Swine” released by the USDA.
         2. The Calculation
         The procedure for calculating the CME Lean Hog Index is as follows, using data reported on two
         consecutive weekdays.
         1. The daily head count for negotiated transactions is multiplied by the corresponding daily
               average carcass weight to obtain the negotiated daily total weight;
         2. The daily head count for swine or pork market formula transactions is multiplied by the
               corresponding daily average carcass weight to obtain the swine or pork market formula daily
               total weight;
         3. The daily head count for negotiated formula transactions is multiplied by the corresponding
               daily average carcass weight to obtain the negotiated formula daily total weight;
         4. The daily totals for negotiated weight (i.e., the result from 1. above), swine or pork market
               formula weight (i.e., the result from 2. above) and negotiated formula weight (i.e., the result
               from 3. above) are added to obtain the daily total weight;
         5. The daily total weights (i.e., the result from 4. above) for two consecutively reported days are
               aggregated to obtain the two–day total weight;
         6. The negotiated daily total weight (i.e., the result from 1. above) is multiplied by the
               corresponding daily average net price to obtain the negotiated daily total value;
         7. The swine or pork market formula daily total weight (i.e., the result from 2. above) is multiplied
               by the corresponding daily average net price to obtain the swine or pork market formula daily
               total value;
         8. The negotiated formula daily total weight (i.e., the result from 3. above) is multiplied by the
               corresponding daily average net price to obtain the negotiated formula daily total value;
         9. The daily totals for negotiated value (i.e., the result from 6. above), swine or pork market
               formula value (i.e. the result from 7. above) and negotiated formula value (i.e., the result from
               8. above) are added to obtain the daily total value
         10. The daily total values (i.e., the result from 9., above) for two consecutively reported days are
               aggregated to obtain the two–day total value; and
         11. The two–day total value (i.e., the result from 10., above) is divided by the two–day total weight
               (i.e., the result from 5., above) to obtain the CME Lean Hog Index
         For the purposes of this rule, Friday of one week and Monday of the following week shall be
         considered to be consecutive weekdays.
         Also for the purposes of this rule, any days when the necessary data are not released by the USDA
         shall not be considered weekdays, in which case the first weekday immediately preceding and the
         first weekday immediately following such day(s) shall be considered two consecutive weekdays.
         Should USDA price reporting be unavailable during any portion of the final settlement pricing
         timeframe, CME may utilize data compiled from futures market activity during that corresponding
         pricing timeframe to calculate the final settlement price.
         15203.B. - H. Reserved]
15204.-08. [RESERVED]
         (End Chapter 152)
