2024 BCSECCOM 523

Headnote

Multilateral Instrument 11-102 –Passport System - Securities Act s. 48 Dealer – Exemption from
s. 34(a) requirement to be registered as a dealer to trade exchange contracts – A person not
registered as a dealer in BC wants to do a trade that requires a BC registered dealer – The
person is registered or qualified as a dealer in the jurisdiction in which they reside or carry on
business; the person will only trade exchange contracts with sophisticated investors.

Applicable Legislative Provisions

Securities Act, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 418, s. 48

                                                                                 December 20, 2024

                                        In the Matter of
                                  the Securities Legislation of
                                       British Columbia
                                       (the Jurisdiction)

                                                 and

                                    In the Matter of
          the Process for Exemptive Relief Applications in Multiple Jurisdictions

                                                 and

                                       In the Matter of
                                   RBC Capital Markets, LLC
                                          (the Filer)

                                               Decision

       Background
¶1     The principal regulator in the Jurisdiction has received an application from the Filer for a
       decision under the securities legislation of the Jurisdiction (the Legislation), in particular,
       under section 48 of the Securities Act (British Columbia) (the Act), granting relief from the
       requirement in section 34(a) of the Act for the Filer to be registered as a dealer in connection
       with trades in contracts or instruments, including futures contracts and options, that have
       their performance guaranteed by a clearing agency and that are traded on an exchange
       pursuant to standardized terms and conditions set out in that exchange's bylaws, rules or
       regulatory instruments, at a price agreed on when the futures contract or option is entered
       into on the exchange (Exchange Contracts) that trade on certain exchanges located outside
       Canada (Foreign Exchange Contracts) with the Jurisdiction's residents that fall within the
       definition of "eligible derivatives party" as defined below (the Exemption Sought).

                                                                                                     1
     Under the Process for Exemptive Relief Applications in Multiple Jurisdictions (for a passport
     application):

     1.      the British Columbia Securities Commission is the principal regulator for this
             decision; and

     2.      the Filer has provided notice that section 4.7(1) of Multilateral Instrument 11-102
             Passport System (MI 11-102) is intended to be relied upon in Alberta and
             Saskatchewan (the Non-Principal Jurisdictions and, together with the
             Jurisdiction, the Jurisdictions).

     Interpretation
¶2   In this decision:

     1.    “eligible derivatives party” means any of the following:

           (a)       a Canadian financial institution;

           (b)       the Business Development Bank of Canada continued under the Business
                     Development Bank of Canada Act (Canada);

           (c)       a subsidiary of a person or company referred to in paragraph (a) or (b), if
                     the person or company owns all of the voting securities of the subsidiary,
                     except the voting securities required by law to be owned by directors of the
                     subsidiary;

           (d)       a person or company registered under the securities legislation of a
                     jurisdiction of Canada as any of the following:

                    (i)     a derivatives dealer;

                    (ii)    a derivatives adviser;

                    (iii)   an adviser;

                    (iv)    an investment dealer;

           (e)       a pension fund that is regulated by the federal Office of the Superintendent
                     of Financial Institutions or a pension commission or similar regulatory
                     authority of a jurisdiction of Canada or a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
                     pension fund;

           (f)       an entity organized under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction that is analogous
                     to any of the entities referred to in paragraphs (a) to (e);

           (g)       the Government of Canada or the government of a jurisdiction of Canada,
                     or any crown corporation, agency or wholly-owned entity of the Government
                     of Canada or the government of a jurisdiction of Canada;

           (h)       a government of a foreign jurisdiction or any agency of that government;



                                                                                                 2
(i)   a municipality, public board or commission in Canada and a metropolitan
      community, school board, the Comité de gestion de la taxe scolaire de l’île
      de Montréal or an intermunicipal management board in Québec;

(j)   a trust company or trust corporation registered or authorized to carry on
      business under the Trust and Loan Companies Act (Canada) or under
      comparable legislation in a jurisdiction of Canada or a foreign jurisdiction,
      acting on behalf of a managed account managed by the trust company or
      trust corporation, as the case may be;

(k)   a person or company that is acting on behalf of a managed account if the
      person or company is registered or authorized to carry on business as
      either of the following:

      (i)    an adviser or a derivatives adviser in a jurisdiction of Canada;

      (ii)   the equivalent of an adviser or a derivatives adviser under the
             securities legislation of a jurisdiction of Canada or a foreign
             jurisdiction;

(l)   an investment fund if either of the following apply:

      (i)    the investment fund is managed by a person or company registered
             as an investment fund manager under the securities legislation of a
             jurisdiction of Canada;

      (ii)   the investment fund is advised by an adviser registered or exempted
             from registration under securities legislation or under commodity
             futures legislation of a jurisdiction of Canada;

(m)   a person or company, other than an individual, that has net assets of at least
      $25 000 000 as shown on its most recently prepared financial statements;

(n)   a person or company that has represented to the derivatives firm, in writing,
      that it is a commercial hedger in relation to the derivatives that it transacts
      with the derivatives firm;

(o)   an individual that beneficially owns financial assets, as defined in section
      1.1 of National Instrument 45-106 Prospectus Exemptions, that have an
      aggregate realizable value before tax but net of any related liabilities of at
      least $5 000 000;

(p)   a person or company, other than an individual, that has represented to the
      derivatives firm, in writing, that its obligations under derivatives that it
      transacts with the derivatives firm are fully guaranteed or otherwise fully
      supported, under a written agreement, by one or more derivatives parties
      referred to in this definition, other than a derivatives party referred to in
      paragraph (n) or (o);

(q)   a person that has been recognized or exempted from recognition as a
      clearing agency.


                                                                                   3
     2.   Terms defined in National Instrument 14-101 Definitions and MI 11-102 have the
          same meanings if used in this decision, unless otherwise defined.

     Representations
¶3   This decision is based on the following facts represented by the Filer:

     1.    The Filer has chosen the British Columbia Securities Commission as the principal
           regulator because:

          (a)       the Filer has already obtained similar relief in Ontario; and

          (b)       outside of Ontario, as between Alberta, Saskatchewan and British Columbia,
                    British Columbia is the jurisdiction in which the Filer expects to have
                    substantial client relationships for the activities described in this decision.

     2.    The Filer is a corporation incorporated under the laws of the State of Minnesota,
           U.S.A. Its head office is located at Three World Financial Center, 200 Vesey Street,
           New York, NY 10281.

     3.    The Filer is not a reporting issuer in any jurisdiction of Canada.

     4.    The Filer is a subsidiary of RBC Capital Markets Holdings (USA) Inc., which is
           organized under the laws of Delaware and which is an indirect subsidiary of Royal
           Bank of Canada.

     5.    The Filer provides execution and clearing services in the United States. The Filer
           services a network of introducing broker offices, as well as financial, industrial and
           agricultural institutions.

     6.    The Filer is registered as a broker-dealer with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
           Commission (U.S. SEC) and a futures commission merchant with the U.S.
           Commodity Futures Trading Commission (U.S. CFTC) and is a member of the U.S.
           Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (U.S. FINRA) and the U.S. National Futures
           Association (U.S. NFA).

     7.    As a registered futures commission merchant, the Filer is authorized to handle
           customer orders and hold customer margin deposits and is required to maintain
           adequate capital levels, make and keep specified types of records relating to
           customer accounts and transactions, and comply with other forms of customer
           protection rules.

     8.    The Filer is a member of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the Chicago Board of
           Trade, the New York Mercantile Exchange and other U.S. and other non-Canadian
           exchanges.

     9.    The Filer is not registered pursuant to securities or commodity futures legislation in
           any jurisdiction of Canada. The Filer is relying on the International Dealer Exemption
           as set forth in Section 8.18 International Dealer of NI 31-103 in relation to trades in
           securities in provinces of British Columbia, Alberta, and Saskatchewan.




                                                                                                 4
10.   The Filer currently offers certain of its clients in the Jurisdictions that are eligible
      derivatives parties the ability to trade in Foreign Exchange Contracts because of
      relief granted to the Filer through an order date June 11, 2019 (the Previous Relief).
      The Previous Relief expired on June 20, 2024 and the effect of the Exemption
      Sought is to extend the Previous Relief, on substantially the same terms and
      conditions, for a further interim period of up to five years (as described below).

11.   The Filer currently provides clearing services to a limited number of clients located
      in Alberta and British Columbia in compliance with the terms and conditions set out
      in the Previous Relief. Subject to the receipt of the requested relief, the Filer will not
      be in default of securities legislation in any jurisdiction of Canada or with securities
      regulatory requirements applicable in a foreign jurisdiction in which the Filer carries
      on business.

12.   The Filer proposes to offer certain of its clients in the Jurisdictions that are an eligible
      derivatives party the ability to trade in Foreign Exchange Contracts through the Filer.

13.   The Filer will solicit business in the Jurisdictions only from persons who qualify as
      an eligible derivatives party.

14.   Clients of the Filer that are an eligible derivatives party will only be offered the ability
      to trade Foreign Exchange Contracts trading on exchanges (and any successor
      entities) located outside Canada and that are listed in Appendix A (Listed
      Exchanges).

15.   The Foreign Exchange Contracts to be traded by eligible derivatives parties will
      include, but will not be limited to, Exchange Contracts for equity index, interest rate,
      energy, agricultural and other commodity products.

16.   A client of the Filer that is an eligible derivatives party will be able to execute trades
      in Foreign Exchange Contracts through the Filer by contacting the Filer's exchange
      floor staff or global execution desk. A client of the Filer may also be able to self-
      execute trades electronically in Foreign Exchange Contracts on Listed Exchanges
      via the Filer's proprietary trading platform and/or other electronic trading routing.

17.   The Filer may execute a client's order or engage another broker to assist in the
      execution of orders on the relevant Listed Exchange in accordance with the rules
      and customary practices of the exchange. The Filer will remain responsible for the
      execution of each such trade; the Filer may perform both execution and clearing
      functions for trades of Foreign Exchange Contracts or may direct that a trade
      executed by it, be cleared through a carrying broker if the Filer is not a clearing
      member of the Listed Exchange on which the trade is executed. Alternatively, the
      client will be able to direct that trades executed by the Filer be cleared through
      clearing brokers not affiliated with the Filer in any way (each a Non-Affiliated
      Clearing Broker).

18.   If the Filer performs only the execution of a client's Foreign Exchange Contract order
      and "gives-up" the transaction for clearance to a Non-Affiliated Clearing Broker,
      such clearing broker will also be required to comply with the rules of the relevant
      Listed Exchange of which it is a member and any relevant regulatory requirements,
      including requirements under the Act as applicable. Each such Non-Affiliated

                                                                                                5
           Clearing Broker will represent to the Filer in a give-up agreement that it will perform
           its obligations in accordance with applicable laws, governmental, regulatory, self-
           regulatory, exchange and clearing house rules and the customs and usages of the
           Listed Exchange or clearing house on which the relevant client's Foreign Exchange
           Contract orders will be executed and cleared. The Filer will not enter into a give-up
           agreement with any Non-Affiliated Clearing Broker located in the United States
           unless such clearing broker is registered with the U.S. CFTC and/or U.S. SEC, as
           applicable.

     19.   As is customary for all trading in exchange contracts, a clearing corporation
           appointed by the exchange or clearing division of the exchange is substituted as a
           universal central counterparty on all trades in Exchange Contracts. For each open
           position in an Exchange Contract resulting from a trade made by the Filer, the client
           is responsible for payment to the Filer, carrying broker or Non-Affiliated Clearing
           Broker, as applicable, of variation margin and/or proper margin to carry the open
           position and the Filer, the carrying broker or the Non-Affiliated Clearing Broker is in
           turn responsible to the clearing corporation/division for payment in accordance with
           the requirements of the clearing corporation/division.

     20.   Clients that direct the Filer to give up transactions in Foreign Exchange Contracts
           for clearance and settlement by Non-Affiliated Clearing Brokers will execute the
           give-up agreements described above; clients will pay commissions for trades to the
           Filer or the Non-Affiliated Clearing Broker or such commissions may be shared with
           the Non-Affiliated Clearing Broker.

     21.   As a futures commission merchant subject to regulatory oversight by the U.S. CFTC,
           the Filer is authorized to handle customer orders and receive and hold customer
           margin deposits and is required to ensure that customer positions and monies,
           including customer margin deposits, be separately accounted for and segregated
           from the positions and monies of the Filer. The U.S. CFTC regulations are designed
           to protect customers in the event of insolvency or financial instability of a futures
           commission merchant through which they clear their futures and futures options
           business. The Filer receives acknowledgements from those of its banks and brokers
           holding the Filer's client funds that such funds are to be separately held on behalf of
           the Filer's clients, with no right of set-off against the Filer's obligations or debts. All
           positions and monies of clients in the Jurisdictions will be subject to equivalent
           protection as positions and monies of customers resident in the US.

     22.   All representatives of the Filer who trade Foreign Exchange Contracts on behalf of
           clients in a Jurisdiction have passed the futures and options proficiency examination
           (i.e., the National Commodity Futures Examination (Series 3)) administered by U.S.
           FINRA.

     Decision
¶4   The principal regulator is satisfied that the decision meets the test set out in the Legislation
     for the principal regulator to make the decision.

     The decision of the principal regulator under the Legislation is that the Exemption Sought
     is granted provided that:

           (a)       at the time trading activity is engaged in:

                                                                                                    6
      (i)     the Filer's head office or principal place of business remains in the
              United States;

      (ii)    the Filer is permitted to trade in Exchange Contracts in the U.S. and
              is registered with the U.S. CFTC as a futures commission merchant
              and is a member of the U.S. NFA in good standing;

      (iii)   the Filer's representatives are permitted to trade Exchange
              Contracts in the U.S. and are registered with the U.S. CFTC and
              U.S. NFA; and

      (iv)    the Filer has filed a submission to jurisdiction and appointment of
              service in the form of Form 31-103F2 Submission To Jurisdiction And
              Appointment Of Agent For Service (F2) with the Jurisdictions except
              that the Filer must delete from the F2 title "(sections 8.18
              [international dealer] and 8.26 [international adviser])", and the Filer
              must delete paragraph 6 of the F2 referring to the section of
              National Instrument 31-103 Registration Requirements, Exemptions
              and Ongoing Registrant Obligations relied on, and in paragraph 11 of
              the F2 the Filer must replace the phrase, "ceases to rely on section
              8.18 [international dealer] or section 8.26 [international adviser]" with
              the phrase, "ceases to rely on the exemption from the requirement
              to register as a dealer in the Jurisdictions dated December 20,
              2024".

(b)   each client effecting trades in Foreign Exchange Contracts in the
      Jurisdictions through the Filer is an eligible derivatives party and, if using a
      Non-Affiliated Clearing Broker, such clearing broker has represented and
      covenanted that it is or will be appropriately registered or exempt from
      registration under the Act;

(c)   the Filer only executes trades in Foreign Exchange Contracts on Listed
      Exchanges for clients that are eligible derivatives parties;

(d)   the Filer provides each client that is executing trades in Foreign Exchange
      Contracts through the Filer, that is in the Jurisdictions, with disclosure upon
      entering into the agreement by which it establishes an account with the
      Filer that includes:

      (i)     a statement that there may be difficulty in enforcing any legal rights
              against the Filer or any of its directors, officers or employees
              because they are resident outside of Canada and all or substantially
              all of their assets are situated outside of Canada;

      (ii)    a statement of the jurisdiction of the Filer's head office or principal
              place of business;

      (iii)   a statement that the Filer is not registered as a dealer under the
              Act (or the equivalent legislation in the other Jurisdictions) and,
              accordingly, the protection available to clients of a dealer
              registered under the Act (or the equivalent legislation in the other

                                                                                     7
                            Jurisdictions), including the protection available by applicable
                            Canadian investor compensation funds, will not be available to
                            clients of the Filer;

                    (iv)    the name and address of the agent for service in each of the
                            Jurisdictions;

            (e)      the Filer notifies each Jurisdictions' securities regulatory authority of any
                     regulatory action after the date of this decision in respect of the Filer, or any
                     predecessors, or specified affiliates of the Filer, by completing and filing
                     Appendix B within 10 days of the Filer becoming aware of such action;

            (f)      the Filer will, for each client in the Jurisdictions that would not qualify as an
                     eligible contract participant as defined in the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act,
                     obtain the information and provide the disclosure required to be provided to
                     customers of U.S. NFA members that are not eligible contract participants,
                     including the disclosure required under U.S. NFA Rule 2-30;

            (g)      this decision will expire the sooner of five years after the date of this decision
                     or upon the implementation in the applicable Jurisdiction(s) of a rule,
                     regulation, other instrument, or material amendments under the securities
                     legislation that governs persons dealing in Foreign Exchange Contracts.


“Mark Wang”
_____________________________
Mark Wang
Director, Capital Markets Regulation
British Columbia Securities Commission




                                                                                                     8
                                                              DRAFT


                                          Appendix A

                                    Listed Exchanges
                               (and any successor entities)

United States
Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT)
Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME)
New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX)
The Commodity Exchange (COMEX)
Minneapolis Grain Exchange (MGEX)
Nodal Exchange
CBOE Futures Exchange (CFE)

Outside the United States
Australian Securities Exchange (ASX 24)
Dubai Mercantile Exchange (DME)
Euronext
Eurex Exchange
Hong Kong Futures Exchange (HKFE)
Italian Derivative Market (IDEM)
ICE Futures Europe
ICE Endex
ICE Futures Singapore
NASDAQ OMX
Osake Exchange (OSE)
Taiwan Futures Exchange (TAIFEX)
Tokyo Financial Exchange (TFX)




                                                                  9
                                               Appendix B

                                      Notice of Regulatory Action

1. Has the firm, or any predecessors or specified affiliates of the firm entered into a settlement
   agreement with any financial services regulator, securities or derivatives exchange, self
   regulatory organization (“SRO”) or similar agreement with any financial services regulator,
   securities or derivatives exchange, SRO or similar organization?

Yes          No

If yes, provide the following information for each settlement agreement:

 Name of entity

 Regulator/organization

 Date of settlement (yyyy/mm/dd)

 Details of settlement

 Jurisdiction



2. Has any financial services regulator, securities or derivatives exchange, SRO or similar
   organization has:

                                                                                       Yes       No
(a) determined that the firm, or any predecessors or specified affiliates of the
firm violated any securities regulations or any rules of a securities or derivatives
exchange, SRO or similar organization?
(b) determined that the firm, or any predecessors or specified affiliates of the
firm, made a false statement or omission?
(c) issued a warning or requested an undertaking by the firm or
any predecessors or specified affiliates of the firm?
(d) suspended or terminated a registration, license or membership of
the firm, or any predecessors or specified affiliates of the firm?
(e) imposed terms or conditions on any registration or membership of
the firm, or any predecessors or specified affiliates of the firm?
(f) conducted a proceeding or investigation involving the firm, or any
predecessors or specified affiliates of the firm?
(g) issued an order (other than an exemption order) or a sanction to the
firm or any predecessors or specified affiliates of the firm, for securities or


If yes, provide the following information for each action:

 Name of entity

 Type of Action

 Regulator/organization

 Date of settlement (yyyy/mm/dd)                     Reason for action

 Jurisdiction



3. Is the firm aware of any ongoing investigation of which the firm or any predecessors or
   specified affiliates of the firm is the subject?

Yes _____ No _________

If yes, provide the following information for each investigation:

 Name of entity

 Reason or purpose of investigation

 Regulator/organization

 Date investigation commenced (yyyy/mm/dd)

 Jurisdiction
 Name of firm

 Name of firm's authorized signing officer or partner

 Title of firm’s authorized signing officer or partner

 Signature

 Date (yyyy/mm/dd)



Witness


The witness must be a lawyer, notary public or commissioner of oaths.

 Name of witness

 Title of witness

 Signature

 Date (yyyy/mm/dd)


This form is to be submitted to the following address:
British Columbia Securities Commission
701 West Georgia Street
P.O. Box 10142, Pacific Centre
Vancouver, B.C. V7Y 1L2
Attention: Manager, Registration
Email: registration@bcsc.bc.ca
