Citation: 2025 BCSECCOM 346

Headnote
Multilateral Instrument 11-102 –Passport System - Securities Act s. 48 Dealer – Exemption from s.
34(a) requirement to be registered as a dealer to trade exchange contracts – A person not registered
as a dealer in BC wants to do a trade that requires a BC registered dealer – The person is registered
or qualified as a dealer in the jurisdiction in which they reside or carry on business; the person will only
trade exchange contracts with sophisticated investors.

Applicable Legislative Provisions
Securities Act, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 418, s. 48


                                                                                              July 31, 2025

                                           In the Matter of
                                     the Securities Legislation of
                                          British Columbia
                                          (the Jurisdiction)

                                                   and

                                     In the Matter of
           the Process for Exemptive Relief Applications in Multiple Jurisdictions

                                                   and

                                            In the Matter of
                                         StoneX Financial Ltd.
                                               (the Filer)

Decision

        Background
1       The principal regulator in the Jurisdiction has received an application from the Filer for a
        decision under the securities legislation of the Jurisdiction (the Legislation), in particular,
        under section 48 of the Securities Act (British Columbia) (the Act), granting relief from the
        requirement in section 34(a) of the Act for the Filer to be registered as a dealer in connection
        with trades in contracts or instruments, including futures contracts and options, that have
        their performance guaranteed by a clearing agency and that are traded on an exchange
        pursuant to standardized terms and conditions set out in that exchange's bylaws, rules or
        regulatory instruments, at a price agreed on when the futures contract or option is entered
        into on the exchange (Exchange Contracts) that trade on certain exchanges located outside
        Canada (Foreign Exchange Contracts) with the Jurisdictions’ residents that fall within the
        definition of "eligible derivatives party" as defined below (the Exemption Sought).
    Under the Process for Exemptive Relief Applications in Multiple Jurisdictions (for a
    passport application):

    1.          the British Columbia Securities Commission is the principal regulator for this
                decision; and

    2.          the Filer has provided notice that section 4.7(1) of Multilateral Instrument 11-102
                Passport System (MI 11-102) is intended to be relied upon in Alberta and
                Saskatchewan (the Non-Principal Jurisdictions and, together with the Jurisdiction,
                the Jurisdictions).

    Interpretation
2   In this decision:

    1.    “eligible derivatives party” means any of the following:

          (a)         a Canadian financial institution;

          (b)         the Business Development Bank of Canada continued under the Business
                      Development Bank of Canada Act (Canada);

          (c)         a subsidiary of a person or company referred to in paragraph (a) or (b), if
                      the person or company owns all of the voting securities of the subsidiary,
                      except the voting securities required by law to be owned by directors of the
                      subsidiary;

          (d)         a person or company registered under the securities legislation of a
                      jurisdiction of Canada as any of the following:

                      (i)     a derivatives dealer;

                      (ii)    a derivatives adviser;

                      (iii)   an adviser;

                      (iv)    an investment dealer;

          (e)         a pension fund that is regulated by the federal Office of the Superintendent
                      of Financial Institutions or a pension commission or similar regulatory
                      authority of a jurisdiction of Canada or a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
                      pension fund;

          (f)         an entity organized under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction that is analogous
                      to any of the entities referred to in paragraphs (a) to (e);

          (g)         the Government of Canada or the government of a jurisdiction of Canada, or
                      any crown corporation, agency or wholly-owned entity of the Government of
                      Canada or the government of a jurisdiction of Canada;

          (h)         a government of a foreign jurisdiction or any agency of that government;
(i)   a municipality, public board or commission in Canada and a metropolitan
      community, school board, the Comité de gestion de la taxe scolaire de l’île
      de Montréal or an intermunicipal management board in Québec;

(j)   a trust company or trust corporation registered or authorized to carry on
      business under the Trust and Loan Companies Act (Canada) or under
      comparable legislation in a jurisdiction of Canada or a foreign jurisdiction,
      acting on behalf of a managed account managed by the trust company or
      trust corporation, as the case may be;

(k)   a person or company that is acting on behalf of a managed account if the
      person or company is registered or authorized to carry on business as
      either of the following:

      (i)    an adviser or a derivatives adviser in a jurisdiction of Canada;

      (ii)   the equivalent of an adviser or a derivatives adviser under the
             securities legislation of a jurisdiction of Canada or a foreign
             jurisdiction;

(l)   an investment fund if either of the following apply:

      (i)    the investment fund is managed by a person or company registered
             as an investment fund manager under the securities legislation of a
             jurisdiction of Canada;

      (ii)   the investment fund is advised by an adviser registered or exempted
             from registration under securities legislation or under commodity
             futures legislation of a jurisdiction of Canada;

(m)   a person or company, other than an individual, that has net assets of at least
      $25 000 000 as shown on its most recently prepared financial statements;

(n)   a person or company that has represented to the derivatives firm, in writing,
      that it is a commercial hedger in relation to the derivatives that it transacts
      with the derivatives firm;

(o)   an individual that beneficially owns financial assets, as defined in section
      1.1 of National Instrument 45-106 Prospectus Exemptions, that have an
      aggregate realizable value before tax but net of any related liabilities of at
      least $5 000 000;

(p)   a person or company, other than an individual, that has represented to the
      derivatives firm, in writing, that its obligations under derivatives that it
      transacts with the derivatives firm are fully guaranteed or otherwise fully
      supported, under a written agreement, by one or more derivatives parties
      referred to in this definition, other than a derivatives party referred to in
      paragraph (n) or (o);

(q)   a person that has been recognized or exempted from recognition as a
      clearing agency.
    2.    Terms defined in National Instrument 14-101 Definitions and MI 11-102 have the
          same meanings if used in this decision, unless otherwise defined.

    Representations
3   This decision is based on the following facts represented by the Filer:

    1.    The Filer has chosen the British Columbia Securities Commission as the principal
          regulator because as between Alberta, Saskatchewan and British Columbia, British
          Columbia is the jurisdiction in which the Filer expects to have the most substantial
          client relationships for the activities described in this decision.

    2.    The Filer is a company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales. Its
          registered and head office is located at 1st Floor, Moor House, 120 London Wall,
          London EC2Y 5ET, United Kingdon (U.K.).

    3.    The Filer is a wholly-owned subsidiary of StoneXGroup Inc. which is a public
          corporation listed on the NASDAQ.

    4.    The Filer is regulated by the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) as a designated
          investment business. The Filer is authorized by the FCA to provide certain regulated
          products, including products that are equivalent to exchange contracts, to eligible
          counterparties and professional clients.

    5.    The Filer, as a designated investment business in the U.K. is authorized to trade
          solicit, accept and execute orders relating to Exchange Contracts on behalf of
          persons in the U.K., including eligible counterparties and professional clients in the
          U.K.

    6.    The Filer is also registered as an introducing broker and foreign exempt firm with the
          U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (U.S. CFTC) and is a member of the
          U.S. National Futures Association (U.S. NFA).

    7.    The Filer, as an designated investment business and an introducing broker, is a
          member of, and is able to execute trades on, major international securities and
          commodity futures exchanges and clearing houses, including Eurex, Eurex Clearing,
          Euronext Derivatives, European Commodity Clearing AG (ECC), European Energy
          Exchange AG (EEX), ICE Clear Europe Limited, ICE Futures Europe, LME Clear
          Limited, London Metal Exchange and Norexco.

    8.    The Filer is not registered pursuant to securities or commodity futures legislation in
          any jurisdiction of Canada. The Filer is relying on the international dealer exemption
          in section 8.18 of National Instrument 31-103 Registration Requirements,
          Exemptions and Ongoing Registrant Obligations (NI 31-103) to deal in securities in
          the provinces of British Columbia, Alberta and Saskatchewan.

    9.    The Filer is not in default of securities legislation in any jurisdiction of Canada or with
          securities regulatory requirements applicable in a foreign jurisdiction in which the
          Filer carries on business.

    10.   The Filer currently offers certain of its clients in the Jurisdictions the ability to trade
          in Foreign Exchange Contracts because of relief granted to the Filer through an
      order granted by the British Columbia Securities Commission on July 31, 2020 (the
      Previous Relief). The Previous Relief expired on July 31, 2025, and the effect of
      the Exemption Sought is to replace the Previous Relief, on substantially the same
      terms and conditions.

11.   The Filer proposes to offer certain of its clients that have their head office or principal
      place of business or has their primary residence in a Jurisdiction (a client in a
      Jurisdiction), that are an eligible derivatives party, the ability to trade in Foreign
      Exchange Contracts through the Filer.

12.   The Filer will solicit business in the Jurisdictions only from persons who qualify as
      an eligible derivatives party.

13.   Clients of the Filer that are an eligible derivatives party will only be offered the ability
      to trade Foreign Exchange Contracts trading on exchanges (and any successor
      entities) located outside of Canada and that have their head office or principal place
      of business in the European Union, the United States, the United Kingdom, Norway
      or Switzerland (each an Exchange).

14.   The Foreign Exchange Contracts to be traded by eligible derivatives parties will
      include, but will not be limited to, Exchange Contracts for equity index, interest rate,
      energy, agricultural and other commodity products.

15.   A client of the Filer that is an eligible derivatives party will be able to execute trades
      in Foreign Exchange Contracts through the Filer by communicating with the Filer’s
      authorized representatives or via the Filer’s proprietary electronic order routing
      system. A client of the Filer may also be able to self-execute trades in Foreign
      Exchange Contracts on an Exchange electronically via an independent service
      vendor and/or other electronic trading order routing systems.

16.   The Filer may execute a client’s order or engage another broker to assist in the
      execution of orders on the relevant Exchange in accordance with the rules and
      customary practices of the exchange. The Filer will remain responsible for the
      execution of each such trade; the Filer may perform both execution and clearing
      functions for trades of Foreign Exchange Contracts or may direct that a trade
      executed by it be cleared through a carrying broker if the Filer is not a clearing
      member of the Exchange on which the trade is executed. Alternatively, the client will
      be able to direct that trades executed by the Filer be cleared through clearing brokers
      not affiliated with the Filer in any way (each a Non-StoneX Clearing Broker).

17.   If the Filer performs only the execution of a client’s Foreign Exchange Contract order
      and “gives-up” the transaction for clearance to a Non-StoneX Clearing Broker, the
      client will need to have an arrangement in place with the Non-StoneX Clearing
      Broker that is either registered or exempted from registration in the applicable
      jurisdiction. Such clearing broker will also be required to comply with the rules of the
      relevant Exchange of which it is a member and any relevant regulatory requirements,
      including requirements under the Act as applicable. Each such Non-StoneX Clearing
      Broker will represent to the Filer in a give-up agreement that it will perform its
      obligations in accordance with applicable laws, governmental, regulatory, self-
      regulatory, exchange and clearing house rules and the customs and usages of the
      Exchange or clearing house on which the relevant client’s Foreign Exchange
          Contract orders will be executed and cleared. The Filer will not enter into a give-up
          agreement with any Non-StoneX Clearing Broker located in the United States unless
          such clearing broker is registered with the U.S. CFTC and/or U.S. Securities and
          Exchange Commission, as applicable. The Filer will not enter into a give-up
          agreement with any Non-StoneX Clearing Broker located in the United Kingdom
          unless such clearing broker is authorized and regulated by the FCA to provide such
          clearing services for clients in the United Kingdom.

    18.   As is customary for all trading in Exchange Contracts, a clearing corporation
          appointed by the exchange or clearing division of the exchange is substituted as a
          universal counterparty on all trades in Exchange Contracts and client orders are
          submitted to the exchange in the name of the Non-StoneX Clearing Broker or the
          Filer or, on exchanges where the Filer is not a member, in the name of another
          carrying broker. The client is responsible to the Filer for payment of daily mark-to-
          market variation margin and/or proper margin to carry open positions and the Filer,
          the carrying broker or the Non-StoneX Clearing Broker is in turn responsible to the
          clearing corporation/division for payment.

    19.   Clients that direct the Filer to give up transactions in Foreign Exchange Contracts
          for clearance and settlement by Non-StoneX Clearing Brokers will execute the give-
          up agreements described above; clients will pay commissions for trades to the Filer
          or the Non-StoneX Clearing Broker or such commissions may be shared with the
          Non-StoneX Clearing Broker.

    20.   Pursuant to its registrations and memberships, the Filer is authorized to handle
          customer orders and receive and hold customer margin deposits, and otherwise act
          as an Investment Firm with the FCA. The rules of the FCA require the Filer to
          maintain adequate capital levels, make and keep specified types of records relating
          to customer accounts and transactions, and comply with other forms of customer
          protection rules, including rules respecting: know-your-customer obligations,
          account-opening requirements, anti-money laundering checks, trading limits,
          counterparty credit due diligence, delivery of confirmation statements, clearing
          deposits and initial and maintenance margins. These rules require the Filer to treat
          eligible derivatives parties materially the same as its U.K. customers with respect to
          transactions made on exchanges in the U.K. In order to protect customers in the
          event of the insolvency or financial instability of the Filer, the Filer complies with the
          Client Asset rules contained in the FCA Handbook, which ensure that cash balances
          are treated as client money and as such are segregated from the Filer's own money.
          The Filer does not accept securities from clients as collateral for the purposes of
          clearing financial derivatives. Where the Filer accepts securities from clients, the
          securities would be treated as custody and as such, segregated and held separately
          from the Filer's own securities.

    Decision
4   The principal regulator is satisfied that the decision meets the test set out in the Legislation
    for the principal regulator to make the decision.

    The decision of the principal regulator under the Legislation is that the Exemption Sought
    is granted provided that:

          (a)      at the time trading activity is engaged in:
      (i)     the Filer’s head office or principal place of business remains in the
              U.K.;

      (ii)    the Filer is permitted to trade in Exchange Contracts in the U.K. for
              clients and is authorised and regulated by the FCA;

      (iii)   the Filer’s representatives are permitted to trade Exchange
              Contracts in the U.K.; and

      (iv)    the Filer has filed a submission to jurisdiction and appointment of
              service in the form of Form 31-103F2 Submission To Jurisdiction And
              Appointment Of Agent For Service (F2) with the Jurisdictions except that
              the Filer must delete from the F2 title “(sections 8.18 [international dealer]
              and 8.26 [international adviser])”, and the Filer must delete paragraph 6
              of the F2 referring to the section of NI 31-103 relied on, and in paragraph
              11 of the F2 the Filer must replace the phrase, “ceases to rely on section
              8.18 [international dealer] or section 8.26 [international adviser]” with the
              phrase, “ceases to rely on the exemption from the requirement to
              register as a dealer in the Jurisdictions dated July 31, 2025”.

(b)   each client in a Jurisdiction is an eligible derivatives party and, if using a
      Non-StoneX Clearing Broker, such clearing broker has represented and
      covenanted that it is or will be appropriately registered or exempt from
      registration under the Act;

(c)   the Filer only executes trades in Foreign Exchange Contracts on an
      Exchange for clients in a Jurisdiction that are eligible derivatives parties;

(d)   the Filer provides each client that is executing trades in Foreign Exchange
      Contracts through the Filer, that is in a Jurisdiction, with disclosure upon
      entering into the agreement by which it establishes an account with the Filer
      that includes:

      (i)     a statement that there may be difficulty in enforcing any legal rights
              against the Filer or any of its directors, officers or employees because
              they are resident outside of Canada and all or substantially all of their
              assets are situated outside of Canada; a statement of the jurisdiction
              of the Filer’s head office or principal place of business;

      (ii)    a statement that the Filer is not registered as a dealer under the Act
              (or the equivalent legislation in the other Jurisdictions) and,
              accordingly, the protection available to clients of a dealer registered
              under the Act (or the equivalent legislation in the other Jurisdictions),
              including the protection available by applicable Canadian investor
              compensation funds, will not be available to clients of the Filer;

      (iii)   the name and address of the agent for service in each of the
              Jurisdictions;

(e)   the Filer notifies each Jurisdictions’ securities regulatory authority of any
      regulatory action after the date of this decision in respect of the Filer, or any
                     predecessors, or specified affiliates of the Filer, by completing and filing
                     Appendix A within 10 days of the Filer becoming aware of such action;

            (f)      this decision will expire the sooner of five years after the date of this decision
                     or upon the implementation in the applicable Jurisdiction(s) of a rule,
                     regulation, other instrument, or material amendments under the securities
                     legislation that governs persons dealing in Foreign Exchange Contracts.


_____________________________
Mark Wang
Director, Capital Markets Regulation
British Columbia Securities Commission
                                          APPENDIX A

                             NOTICE OF REGULATORY ACTION

1.     Has the firm, or any predecessors or specified affiliates of the firm entered into a
       settlement agreement with any financial services regulator, securities or derivatives
       exchange, self regulatory organization (“SRO”) or similar agreement with any financial
       services regulator, securities or derivatives exchange, SRO or similar organization?

Yes         No

If yes, provide the following information for each settlement agreement:

 Name of entity

 Regulator/organization

 Date of settlement (yyyy/mm/dd)

 Details of settlement

 Jurisdiction



2.     Has any financial services regulator, securities or derivatives exchange, SRO or
       similar organization has:




                                                                                   Yes    No
(a) determined that the firm, or any predecessors or specified affiliates of the
firm violated any securities regulations or any rules of a securities
or derivatives exchange, SRO or similar organization?
(b) determined that the firm, or any predecessors or specified affiliates of the
firm, made a false statement or omission?
(c) issued a warning or requested an undertaking by the firm or
any predecessors or specified affiliates of the firm?
(d) suspended or terminated a registration, license or membership of
the firm, or any predecessors or specified affiliates of the firm?
(e) imposed terms or conditions on any registration or membership of
the firm, or any predecessors or specified affiliates of the firm?
(f) conducted a proceeding or investigation involving the firm, or any
predecessors or specified affiliates of the firm?
 (g) issued an order (other than en exemption order) or a sanction to the firm
or any predecessors or specified affiliates of the firm, for securities or
derivatives-related activity (e.g. cease trade order)?


If yes, provide the following information for each action:

 Name of entity

 Type of Action

 Regulator/organization


 Date of settlement (yyyy/mm/dd)                   Reason for action



 Jurisdiction



3.     Is the firm aware of any ongoing investigation of which the firm or any predecessors or
       specified affiliates of the firm is the subject?

Yes _______No _________

If yes, provide the following information for each investigation:

 Name of entity

 Reason or purpose of investigation

 Regulator/organization

 Date investigation commenced (yyyy/mm/dd)

 Jurisdiction



 Name of firm

 Name of firm’s authorized signing officer or partner
 Title of firm’s authorized signing officer or partner

 Signature
 Date (yyyy/mm/dd)



Witness

The witness must be a lawyer, notary public or commissioner of oaths.

 Name of witness

 Title of witness

 Signature

 Date (yyyy/mm/dd)



This form is to be submitted to the following address:
British Columbia Securities Commission
701 West Georgia Street
P.O. Box 10142, Pacific Centre
Vancouver, B.C. V7Y 1L2
Attention: Manager, Registration
Email: registration@bcsc.bc.ca
