2025 BCSECCOM 141

Headnote
Multilateral Instrument 11-102 –Passport System - Securities Act s. 48 Dealer – Exemption from
s. 34(a) requirement to be registered as a dealer to trade exchange contracts – A person not
registered as a dealer in BC wants to do a trade that requires a BC registered dealer – The
person is registered or qualified as a dealer in the jurisdiction in which they reside or carry on
business; the person will only trade exchange contracts with sophisticated investors.

Applicable Legislative Provisions
Securities Act, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 418, s. 48

                                                                                           April 3, 2025

                                         In the Matter of
                                   the Securities Legislation of
                                        British Columbia
                                        (the Jurisdiction)

                                                 and

                                    In the Matter of
          the Process for Exemptive Relief Applications in Multiple Jurisdictions

                                                 and

                                   In the Matter of
                   Duneland Commodities Inc. dba DLC Risk Management
                                       (the Filer)

                                               Decision

       Background
¶1     The principal regulator in the Jurisdiction has received an application from the Filer for a
       decision under the securities legislation of the Jurisdiction (the Legislation), in particular,
       under section 48 of the Securities Act (British Columbia) (the Act), granting relief from the
       requirement in section 34(a) of the Act for the Filer to be registered as a dealer in connection
       with trades in contracts or instruments, including futures contracts and options, that have their
       performance guaranteed by a clearing agency and that are traded on an exchange pursuant
       to standardized terms and conditions set out in that exchange's bylaws, rules or regulatory
       instruments, at a price agreed on when the futures contract or option is entered into on the
       exchange (Exchange Contracts) that trade on certain exchanges located outside Canada
       (Foreign Exchange Contracts) with the Jurisdiction's residents that fall within the definition
       of "eligible derivatives party" as defined below (the Exemption Sought).

       Under the Process for Exemptive Relief Applications in Multiple Jurisdictions (for a passport
       application):

                                                  1
     1.      the British Columbia Securities Commission is the principal regulator for this
             decision; and

     2.      the Filer has provided notice that section 4.7(1) of Multilateral Instrument 11-102
             Passport System (MI 11-102) is intended to be relied upon in Alberta and
             Saskatchewan (the Non-Principal Jurisdictions and, together with the
             Jurisdiction, the Jurisdictions).

     Interpretation
¶2   In this decision:

     1.    “eligible derivatives party” means any of the following:

           (a)       a Canadian financial institution;

           (b)       the Business Development Bank of Canada continued under the Business
                     Development Bank of Canada Act (Canada);

           (c)       a subsidiary of a person or company referred to in paragraph (a) or (b), if the
                     person or company owns all of the voting securities of the subsidiary, except
                     the voting securities required by law to be owned by directors of the
                     subsidiary;

           (d)       a person or company registered under the securities legislation of a
                     jurisdiction of Canada as any of the following:

                    (i)     a derivatives dealer;

                    (ii)    a derivatives adviser;

                    (iii)   an adviser;

                    (iv)    an investment dealer;

           (e)       a pension fund that is regulated by the federal Office of the Superintendent
                     of Financial Institutions or a pension commission or similar regulatory
                     authority of a jurisdiction of Canada or a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
                     pension fund;

           (f)       an entity organized under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction that is analogous
                     to any of the entities referred to in paragraphs (a) to (e);

           (g)       the Government of Canada or the government of a jurisdiction of Canada, or
                     any crown corporation, agency or wholly-owned entity of the Government of
                     Canada or the government of a jurisdiction of Canada;

           (h)       a government of a foreign jurisdiction or any agency of that government;

           (i)       a municipality, public board or commission in Canada and a metropolitan
                     community, school board, the Comité de gestion de la taxe scolaire de l’île
                     de Montréal or an intermunicipal management board in Québec;


                                                2
     (j)     a trust company or trust corporation registered or authorized to carry on
             business under the Trust and Loan Companies Act (Canada) or under
             comparable legislation in a jurisdiction of Canada or a foreign jurisdiction,
             acting on behalf of a managed account managed by the trust company or
             trust corporation, as the case may be;

     (k)     a person or company that is acting on behalf of a managed account if the
             person or company is registered or authorized to carry on business as either
             of the following:

             (i)    an adviser or a derivatives adviser in a jurisdiction of Canada;

             (ii)   the equivalent of an adviser or a derivatives adviser under the
                    securities legislation of a jurisdiction of Canada or a foreign
                    jurisdiction;

     (l)     an investment fund if either of the following apply:

             (i)    the investment fund is managed by a person or company registered
                    as an investment fund manager under the securities legislation of a
                    jurisdiction of Canada;

             (ii)   the investment fund is advised by an adviser registered or exempted
                    from registration under securities legislation or under commodity
                    futures legislation of a jurisdiction of Canada;

     (m)     a person or company, other than an individual, that has net assets of at least
             $25 000 000 as shown on its most recently prepared financial statements;

     (n)     a person or company that has represented to the derivatives firm, in writing,
             that it is a commercial hedger in relation to the derivatives that it transacts
             with the derivatives firm;

     (o)     an individual that beneficially owns financial assets, as defined in section 1.1
             of National Instrument 45-106 Prospectus Exemptions, that have an
             aggregate realizable value before tax but net of any related liabilities of at
             least $5 000 000;

     (p)     a person or company, other than an individual, that has represented to the
             derivatives firm, in writing, that its obligations under derivatives that it
             transacts with the derivatives firm are fully guaranteed or otherwise fully
             supported, under a written agreement, by one or more derivatives parties
             referred to in this definition, other than a derivatives party referred to in
             paragraph (n) or (o);

     (q)     a person that has been recognized or exempted from recognition as a
             clearing agency.

2.   Terms defined in National Instrument 14-101 Definitions and MI 11-102 have the
     same meanings if used in this decision, unless otherwise defined.



                                        3
     Representations
¶3   This decision is based on the following facts represented by the Filer:

     1.    The Filer has chosen the British Columbia Securities Commission as the principal
           regulator because as between Alberta, Saskatchewan and British Columbia, British
           Columbia is the jurisdiction in which the Filer expects to have substantial client
           relationships for the activities described in this decision.

     2.    The Filer is a corporation incorporated under the laws of the State of Indiana, U.S.A.
           Its head office is located at 2212 Longspur Dr, Aledo, TX 76008.

     3.    The Filer is not a reporting issuer in any jurisdiction of Canada.

     4.    The Filer provides futures brokerage services to agricultural producers in connection
           with executing on risk management strategies intended to reduce producers’
           exposure to volatility in commodity prices.

     5.    The Filer is registered as an introducing broker and swap firm with the U.S. Commodity
           Futures Trading Commission (U.S. CFTC) and is a member of the U.S. National
           Futures Association (U.S. NFA).

     6.    The Filer, as an introducing broker, is able to execute trades and exchanges operated
           by the CME Group (including the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), the Chicago
           Board of Trade (CBOT), the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) and the
           Commodity Exchange (COMEX), and by the ICE Futures U.S. (ICUS).

     7.    The Filer is not registered pursuant to securities or commodity futures legislation in
           any jurisdiction of Canada.

     8.    The Filer proposes to offer certain of its clients in the Jurisdictions that are an eligible
           derivatives party the ability to trade in Foreign Exchange Contracts through the Filer.

     9.    The Filer will solicit business in the Jurisdictions only from persons who qualify as an
           eligible derivatives party.

     10.   Clients of the Filer that are an eligible derivatives party will only be offered the ability
           to trade Foreign Exchange Contracts trading on exchanges (and any successor
           entities) designated as designated contract markets by the U.S. CFTC (U.S.
           Exchanges).

     11.   The Foreign Exchange Contracts to be traded by eligible derivatives parties will
           include, but will not be limited to, Exchange Contracts for equity index, interest rate,
           energy, agricultural and other commodity products.

     12.   Pursuant to its registration and membership, the Filer is authorized to solicit, accept,
           and execute customer orders, and otherwise act as an introducing broker in the
           United States. The Filer is also authorized to solicit and accept customer orders and
           introduce them to an executing broker registered as a futures commission merchant
           in the United States. Rules of the U.S. CFTC and U.S. NFA require the Filer to
           maintain adequate capital levels, make and keep specified types of records relating
           to customer accounts and transactions including confirmations and statements, and


                                                 4
      comply with other forms of customer protection rules, including rules respecting: know
      your customer obligations, account opening requirements, suitability requirements,
      anti-money laundering checks and best execution. These rules do not permit the Filer
      to treat an eligible derivatives party materially differently from the Filer’s customers in
      the United States. In respect of Foreign Exchange Contracts, the Filer does not
      provide clearing services nor it is authorized to receive or hold client money in any
      jurisdiction.

13.   Before the Filer accepts an order from an eligible derivatives party in the Jurisdictions
      for trades in Foreign Exchange Contracts on a U.S. Exchange, the eligible derivatives
      party will need to have arrangements in place with another broker that is registered
      or exempted from registration in the applicable jurisdictions and that can provide
      execution and clearing services. The eligible derivatives party must enter into a
      separate agreement with that broker.

14.   The Filer may execute a client's order on a U.S. Exchange in accordance with the
      rules and customary practices of the exchange, or engage an executing broker
      registered as a futures commission merchant to assist in the execution of orders. The
      Filer will remain responsible for all executions. As the Filer will only perform the
      execution of an eligible derivatives party’s Foreign Exchange Contract order and
      "give-up" the transaction for clearance to the eligible derivatives party’s carrying
      broker or clearing broker (each, a Clearing Broker), such Clearing Broker will also
      be required to comply with the rules of the relevant U.S. Exchange of which it is a
      member and any relevant regulatory requirements, including requirements under the
      Act as applicable.

15.   Each Clearing Broker will represent to the Filer in an industry standard give-up
      agreement that it will perform its obligations in accordance with applicable laws,
      governmental, regulatory, self-regulatory, exchange and clearing house rules and the
      customs and usages of the U.S. Exchange or clearing house on which the relevant
      eligible derivatives party's Foreign Exchange Contract orders will be executed and/or
      cleared. The Filer will not enter into a give-up agreement with any Clearing Broker
      located in the United States unless such Clearing Broker is registered with the U.S.
      CFTC and/or U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, as applicable.

16.   As is customary for all trading in Exchange Contracts, a clearing corporation
      appointed by the exchange or clearing division of the exchange is substituted as a
      universal central counterparty on all trades in Exchange Contracts and client orders
      are submitted to the U.S. Exchange in the name of the Clearing Broker or the Filer
      or, on exchangers where the Filer is not a member, in the name of another carrying
      broker. The client of the Filer is responsible to the Clearing Broker for payment of
      daily mark to market variation margin and/or proper margin to carry open positions
      and the Clearing Broker is in turn responsible to the clearing corporation/division for
      payment in accordance with the requirements of the clearing corporation/division.

17.   Clients that direct the Filer to give up transactions in Foreign Exchange Contracts for
      clearance and settlement by Clearing Brokers will execute the give-up agreements
      described above; clients will pay commissions for trades to the Filer or the Clearing
      Broker or such commissions may be shared with the Clearing Broker.




                                           5
     18.   Except in respect of the determination as to whether a prospective client is an eligible
           derivatives party, the Filer will follow the same know your customer procedures and
           order handling that it follows in respect of its United States clients. Eligible derivatives
           parties will be afforded the benefits of compliance by the Filer with the statutory and
           other requirements of applicable securities and commodity futures regulators, self-
           regulatory organizations and exchanges located in the United States. Eligible
           derivatives parties will have the same contractual rights against the Filer as the Filer’s
           clients in the United States.

     19.   All representatives of the Filer who trade Exchange Contracts in the United States
           have passed the futures and options proficiency examination (i.e., the National
           Commodity Futures Examination (Series 3)) administered by U.S. FINRA.

     Decision
¶4   The principal regulator is satisfied that the decision meets the test set out in the Legislation
     for the principal regulator to make the decision.

     The decision of the principal regulator under the Legislation is that the Exemption Sought
     is granted provided that:

           (a)      at the time trading activity is engaged in:

                    (i)     the Filer's head office or principal place of business remains in the
                            United States;

                    (ii)    the Filer is permitted to trade in Exchange Contracts in the U.S. and
                            is registered with the U.S. CFTC as an introducing broker and is a
                            member of the U.S. NFA in good standing;

                    (iii)   the Filer's representatives are permitted to trade Exchange Contracts
                            in the U.S. and are registered with the U.S. CFTC and U.S. NFA; and

                    (iv)    the Filer has filed a submission to jurisdiction and appointment of
                            service in the form of Form 31-103F2 Submission To Jurisdiction And
                            Appointment Of Agent For Service (F2) with the Jurisdictions except
                            that the Filer must delete from the F2 title "(sections 8.18
                            [international dealer] and 8.26 [international adviser])", and the Filer
                            must delete paragraph 6 of the F2 referring to the section of National
                            Instrument 31-103 Registration Requirements, Exemptions and Ongoing
                            Registrant Obligations relied on, and in paragraph 11 of the F2 the
                            Filer must replace the phrase, "ceases to rely on section 8.18
                            [international dealer] or section 8.26 [international adviser]" with the
                            phrase, "ceases to rely on the exemption from the requirement to
                            register as a dealer in the Jurisdictions dated April 3, 2025".

           (b)      each client effecting trades in Foreign Exchange Contracts in the
                    Jurisdictions through the Filer is an eligible derivatives party and, if using a
                    Clearing Broker, such clearing broker has represented and covenanted that
                    it is or will be appropriately registered or exempt from registration under the
                    Act;



                                                 6
              (c)    the Filer only executes trades in Foreign Exchange Contracts on a U.S.
                     Exchange for clients that are eligible derivatives parties;

              (d)    the Filer provides each client that is executing trades in Foreign Exchange
                     Contracts through the Filer, that is in the Jurisdictions, with disclosure upon
                     entering into the agreement by which it establishes an account with the Filer
                     that includes:

                    (i)     a statement that there may be difficulty in enforcing any legal rights
                            against the Filer or any of its directors, officers or employees because
                            they are resident outside of Canada and all or substantially all of their
                            assets are situated outside of Canada;

                    (ii)    a statement of the jurisdiction of the Filer's head office or principal
                            place of business;

                    (iii)   a statement that the Filer is not registered as a dealer under the Act
                            (or the equivalent legislation in the other Jurisdictions) and,
                            accordingly, the protection available to clients of a dealer registered
                            under the Act (or the equivalent legislation in the other
                            Jurisdictions), including the protection available by applicable
                            Canadian investor compensation funds, will not be available to
                            clients of the Filer;

                    (iv)    the name and address of the agent for service in each of the
                            Jurisdictions;

              (e)    the Filer notifies each Jurisdictions' securities regulatory authority of any
                     regulatory action after the date of this decision in respect of the Filer, or any
                     predecessors, or specified affiliates of the Filer, by completing and filing
                     Appendix A within 10 days of the Filer becoming aware of such action;

              (f)    the Filer will, for each client in the Jurisdictions that would not qualify as an
                     eligible contract participant as defined in the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act,
                     obtain the information and provide the disclosure required to be provided to
                     customers of U.S. NFA members that are not eligible contract participants,
                     including the disclosure required under U.S. NFA Rule 2-30;

              (g)    this decision will expire the sooner of five years after the date of this decision
                     or upon the implementation in the applicable Jurisdiction(s) of a rule,
                     regulation, other instrument, or material amendments under the securities
                     legislation that governs persons dealing in Foreign Exchange Contracts.



“Mark Wang”

_____________________________
Mark Wang
Director, Capital Markets Regulation
British Columbia Securities Commission


                                                 7
                                              Appendix A

                                      Notice of Regulatory Action

1. Has the firm, or any predecessors or specified affiliates of the firm entered into a settlement
   agreement with any financial services regulator, securities or derivatives exchange, self
   regulatory organization (“SRO”) or similar agreement with any financial services regulator,
   securities or derivatives exchange, SRO or similar organization?

Yes ______      No ______

If yes, provide the following information for each settlement agreement:

 Name of entity

 Regulator/organization

 Date of settlement (yyyy/mm/dd)

 Details of settlement

 Jurisdiction



2. Has any financial services regulator, securities or derivatives exchange, SRO or similar
   organization has:

                                                                                       Yes       No
(a) determined that the firm, or any predecessors or specified affiliates of the
firm violated any securities regulations or any rules of a securities or derivatives
exchange, SRO or similar organization?
(b) determined that the firm, or any predecessors or specified affiliates of the
firm, made a false statement or omission?
(c) issued a warning or requested an undertaking by the firm or
any predecessors or specified affiliates of the firm?
(d) suspended or terminated a registration, license or membership of
the firm, or any predecessors or specified affiliates of the firm?
(e) imposed terms or conditions on any registration or membership of
the firm, or any predecessors or specified affiliates of the firm?
(f) conducted a proceeding or investigation involving the firm, or any
predecessors or specified affiliates of the firm?


                                                     8
(g) issued an order (other than an exemption order) or a sanction to the
firm or any predecessors or specified affiliates of the firm, for securities or


If yes, provide the following information for each action:

 Name of entity

 Type of Action

 Regulator/organization

 Date of settlement (yyyy/mm/dd)                     Reason for action

 Jurisdiction



3. Is the firm aware of any ongoing investigation of which the firm or any predecessors or
   specified affiliates of the firm is the subject?

Yes _____ No ________

If yes, provide the following information for each investigation:

 Name of entity

 Reason or purpose of investigation

 Regulator/organization

 Date investigation commenced (yyyy/mm/dd)

 Jurisdiction




                                                    9
 Name of firm

 Name of firm's authorized signing officer or partner

 Title of firm’s authorized signing officer or partner

 Signature

 Date (yyyy/mm/dd)



Witness


The witness must be a lawyer, notary public or commissioner of oaths.

 Name of witness

 Title of witness

 Signature

 Date (yyyy/mm/dd)


This form is to be submitted to the following address:
British Columbia Securities Commission
701 West Georgia Street
P.O. Box 10142, Pacific Centre
Vancouver, B.C. V7Y 1L2
Attention: Manager, Registration
Email: registration@bcsc.bc.ca




                                                    10
