NinjaTrader Developer Community | NinjaScript Resources & Documentation
Open main menu Products
Developers
Enterprise
Get Started
Where Futures Are Built
Designed by Traders for Traders, our platform provides everything you need to seamlessly create, test, and deploy custom trading solutions for individuals, businesses, and enterprises.
build your own experience
Products
Empower your trading experience with NinjaTrader. Designed to support you throughout your trading journey, our platform offers advanced charting, analytics, and automated trading features, allowing you to:
Build innovative chart indicators
Build, test, and deploy automated trading strategies
Develop drawing tools, chart styles, and custom rendering
Create completely new Add-On experiences
Access the market via our APIs
Learn More
Indicators
Add-On Development
Strategies
APIs
Chart Components
Solutions for all
Solutions
Unlock your potential with NinjaTrader's comprehensive solutions. Whether you're a trader seeking advanced tools, an educator inspiring the next generation, a developer crafting innovative applications, or a data analyst uncovering market insights, we have the resources to propel you forward. From evaluation services to bespoke platforms, NinjaTrader empowers you to innovate, excel, and build your edge.
Learn More About Our Solutions
Review our documentation to get started
Read the Docs
Products
Indicators
Strategies
Chart Components
Add-On Development
APIs
SOLUTIONS
Traders
Educators
Developers
Evaluation Services
Data Analyst
DOCUMENTATION
Charting
Simulation
Customize
Mobile Apps
COMMUNITY
Help Center
Contact Support
Support Forum
Disclosures | Privacy Policy | GDPR
This website is operated by NinjaTrader, LLC (“NT”). NT is affiliated with NinjaTrader Clearing, LLC d/b/a NinjaTrader, Kraken Derivatives US, and Tradovate (“NTC”) through NinjaTrader Group, LLC (“NTG”), collectively “NinjaTrader”. NT owns and supports the proprietary NinjaTrader trading platform as a software development company, while NTC provides brokerage services. View Disclosures .
NTC is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a futures commission merchant (“FCM”) and is a National Futures Association (“NFA”) Member (NFA ID: 0309379). Questions related to brokerage accounts should be directed to your broker.
Futures, options, foreign currency, digital asset, and event contract trading involves substantial risk and is not suitable for everyone. An investor may lose all or more than the initial investment. Trading should be undertaken only with risk capital—funds that can be lost without jeopardizing one’s financial security or lifestyle—and only by those who can afford such losses. Past performance is not necessarily indicative of future results. Prior to trading digital assets, review the CFTC and NFA advisories for additional information regarding the significant risks involved. View Risk Disclosure Statement .
This website is provided by NinjaTrader on an “as-is” basis for informational purposes only and does not constitute investment advice, a recommendation, or an offer or solicitation to buy, sell, or hold any commodity interest or financial product or engage in any investment strategy. Content may include statements or opinions of NTG and its affiliates or third-party information; no representation or warranty, express or implied, is made as to the accuracy or completeness of the information herein. NinjaTrader disclaims all liability arising from use of or reliance on such information.
NFA Rule 2-29(c) : Hypothetical performance results have many inherent limitations, some of which are described below. No representation is being made that any account will or is likely to achieve profits or losses similar to those shown. In fact, there are frequently sharp differences between hypothetical performance results and the actual results subsequently achieved by any particular trading program. One of the limitations of hypothetical performance results is that they are generally prepared with the benefit of hindsight. In addition, hypothetical trading does not involve financial risk, and no hypothetical trading record can completely account for the impact of financial risk in actual trading. For example, the ability to withstand losses or to adhere to a particular trading program in spite of trading losses are material points which can also adversely affect actual trading results. There are numerous other factors related to the markets in general or to the implementation of any specific trading program which cannot be fully accounted for in the preparation of hypothetical performance results and all of which can adversely affect actual trading results.