Self-Directed Investing | Questrade
search
Log in
Open an account
Open a Margin
account
Customize an index
menu
menu
chevron_left
Back
Trade
Invest
Tools & Features
Tools & Features
The tools and features built to help you trade and invest your way.
Questrade
Pro
Agentic
Finance
Custom
Indexing
English
We noticed your browser/system language is set to
French. Would
you like to browse Questrade.com in French?
English
Français
Start Trading
Self-Directed Investing
Platforms and Apps
Tools and Partners
Investing Products
Pricing and Fees
Account Types
Why Questrade
Programs and Promotions
Programs and Promotions
Questrade Plus
Reserve
Become an Affiliate
Learning
English
English
français
Log in
ZERO COMMISSION
Self-Directed Investing
$0 commission stocks & ETFs, options as low as $0 3 , no hidden fees -plus the tools to trade smarter and stay in control.
$0 commission stocks & ETFs, options as low as $0 3 , no hidden fees - plus the tools to trade smarter and stay in control.
Start today
Why Questrade is the best platform for DIY Investors 1
Seamless US Trading. Avoid FX conversion fees
Zero Commission Trading
Get a Competitive Edge with Advanced tools, real-time data, and a customizable platform
Broad range of registered accounts like RRSP, TFSA, RESPs and LIRAS with low-cost investing
More than just Stocks & ETFs. Trade options, precious metals, and IPOs on one powerful platform.
Transfer your account to Questrade for free 5
NOW IN OPEN BETA
Questrade Pro
Charts that find trades for you. An AI trading assistant. An options scanner that surfaces hidden gems. Experience the latest in personal trading technology, right in your browser—for free.
Learn more
100% Canadian Owned
27 years
in the Canadian market
$80 billion
in assets under administration
13x winner
Ready to open an account and take charge of your financial future?
Get started
Accounts for every goal
Saving for your first home, retirement, or simply looking to grow your wealth? Questrade has an account to help you get there, confidently.
TFSA
Save and invest for any goal with this flexible and tax-free account
Tax-free growth and withdrawal
Great for short or long-term savings goals
Margin
Increase your buying power by leveraging the assets you already own
Borrowed funds for more flexibility
Place advanced order types
RRSP
A tax-advantaged account that helps you build your nest egg for retirement
Contributions can reduce your yearly tax liability
Tax-deferred growth on investments
Cash
An investing account that lets you trade without the restrictions of contribution limits
No borrowing, just straightforward investing
Automatic currency conversion 1 when you buy U.S. stocks with CAD, and vice versa
FHSA
A tax-free account that you can use to save up to $40,000 towards your first home
Contribute up to $8,000 a year
Get tax deductions on your yearly contribution
RESP
Save for your child’s education and get access to government grants
Get a 20% contribution match from the government, up to a maximum limit of $7,200
Protect your gains in a tax-sheltered account
Explore all accounts
Keep more of your money where it belongs: in your investments
At Questrade, $0 trading comes standard
2
Trade stocks for
$0
Trade ETFs for
$0
Trade options for as low as
$0
per contract 3
See Pricing
Fractional shares are here!
Trade fractional shares in real-time, commission-free and get the most out of every dollar.
Learn more
Find the right investments for you
Building your own portfolio means choosing the investments that suit your goals and preferences. You can invest commission-free 2 and maximize your money's potential.
Stocks
The classic investing product. Own shares in a company for potential growth and dividend income.
Learn more about stocks
ETFs
Diversify your portfolio with ETFs that invest in multiple companies, commodities and more.
Learn more about etfs
Options
Enjoy the flexibility of buying or selling an investment at a set price at a later date.
Learn more about options
Explore all products
SECURITIES LENDING PROGRAM
Earn passive income
Maintain full ownership of your stocks and ETFs while making extra money by loaning them out.
Learn more
Try Questrade Plus free for 30 days*
Combine your drive with better value, tools and guidance. Cancel anytime.
Learn more
attach_money
Savings
Save 40% or more on services like online journaling and market data.
analytics
Tools
Execute your strategy more effectively and efficiently with advanced tools.
school
Guidance
Accelerate your growth as an investor with the help of our learning sessions.
It's time to switch
Trade stocks and ETFs commission-free 2
Trade options for as low as $0/contract 3
No annual RRSP or TFSA account fees
Seize the markets with extended hours: trade U.S. markets from 4 am to 2 am ET
Ready to open an account and take charge of your financial future?
Get started
Free, fast and fully customizable platforms
Take advantage of innovative, intuitive and easy-to-use trading platforms to build your portfolio.
Questrade Trading
Trade, manage your account, check your performance and research stocks all in one place.
Get details
QuestMobile
Never miss an opportunity. Trade wherever you are with this easy-to-use mobile app.
Get details
Questrade Edge Mobile
Designed for the active trader, Questrade Edge Mobile puts the power of our advanced platform in the palm of your hand.
Get details
Questrade Edge
Powerful software made by traders for traders. Trade like a pro with our advanced trading platforms.
Get details
Questrade Global
Take on the global markets and trade currencies, commodities and more on desktop, tablet or smartphone.
Get details
Tools for smart and confident decisions
Questrade is much more than just a trading platform. Free, powerful tools like OptionsPlay, Seeking Alpha, Passiv and more can help you track your investments – and find new opportunities.
Take your trading research deeper with advanced technical analysis, customizable charts, and more—all in one place.
Discover TradingView
Keep your trades on track towards your investment goals with Passiv's easy portfolio management platform.
Discover Passiv
Discover all tools
Two great ways to invest
Self-directed investing
Create your own portfolio with self-directed investing and hand-pick the assets you’re most interested in.
Managed investing
Want someone to invest for you? With Questwealth Portfolios, experts handle all the portfolio management for you.
No commissions
Trade stocks and ETFs commission-free 2 . And options for as low as $0/contract
3 .
Lower fees for better returns
Earn up to 50% more 4 and get account management fees starting at only 0.25%
Easy-to-use research tools
Capitalize on tools to find new trading ideas.
Investing made quick and easy
Get matched with a portfolio suited to you in 15 minutes or less
Access to advanced platforms
Mobile, web or desktop—trade your way on powerful platforms.
Socially responsible investing (SRI) available
Invest in companies focused on social, environmental and governance qualities
Open an account
Open an account
Two great ways to invest
Self-directed
investing Self-directed
investing
Create your own portfolio with self-directed investing and hand-pick the assets you’re most interested in.
No commissions
Trade stocks and ETFs commission-free 2 . And options for 99¢/contract 3 .
Easy-to-use research tools
Capitalize on tools to find new trading ideas.
Access to advanced platforms
Mobile, web or desktop—trade your way on powerful platforms
Open an account
Managed
investing Managed
investing
Want someone to invest for you? With Questwealth Portfolios, experts handle all the portfolio management for you.
Lower fees for better returns
Earn up to 50% more 4 and get account management fees starting at only 0.25%
Investing made quick and easy
Get matched with a portfolio suited to you in 15 minutes or less
Socially responsible investing (SRI) available
Invest in companies focused on social, environmental and governance qualities
Open an account
Learn to become a better investor
Check out these learning articles to find out more about how managed investing can help you save for retirement.
TFSA or RRSP: what's the right way for you to save?
Understand the different benefits of TFSAs and RRSPs.
Read article
The different investment types available for your portfolio
Discover the different investment products offered at Questrade.
Read article
How To Choose The Right Account For Your Investments
Follow these easy steps to start opening a Questwealth Portfolios account.
Read article
Get answers to frequently asked questions
How do you keep your fees so low?
By bringing investing online, we reduce overhead and eliminate the layers between you and the market. We then pass those savings onto you.
What is the difference between Questwealth Portfolios and Self-Directed?
With Questwealth Portfolios, you get a portfolio managed by our team of experts. With Self-Directed Investing, you're buying and selling the investments yourself.
Can I talk to a real person about self-directed investing?
Absolutely. We are just one call away. For account related questions, call 1.888.783.7866.
See all
Disclaimers 1 Questrade won Best online broker by MoneySense for 2025.
2 Zero commission trades', '$0 commissions', '$0 trading', 'trade commission-free' and similar messages, refer to commission-free trading for trades placed online through Questrade, Inc.'s website or mobile apps for stocks
and ETFs that are listed on a stock exchange in the United States or Canada. Other fees may still apply.
*By claiming your 30-day free trial, you commit to a Questrade Plus subscription at the specified monthly cost ($11.95) that starts immediately after the Trial Period and automatically renews until cancelled. You can cancel your free
trial at any time during your Trial Period before the renewal date. If you cancel during your Trial Period, you will retain access to Questrade Plus features for the remainder of your free trial. You cannot reactivate this trial.
See Questrade Plus Trial Offer Terms for full terms and conditions.
Average monthly savings are based on the monthly price not including tax for each subscription included (real-time data package) and performing at least one journaling request per month. Actual savings may vary based on journaling
usage.
3 As low as $0/contract pricing applies to US Options only. Please see our options pricing for details on each tier. Other fees may still apply.
4 "Earn up to 50% more", "make up to 50% more", "up to 50% more", "up to 50% more money", "lower fees for better returns", “Become/get up to 50% wealthier”, “Trade high fees for better returns”, “high
fees that lower your returns” and similar messages, are references and equivalents to our "earn up to 50% more" claim (and together or individually these may be referred to as the "up to 50% claim"). The 'up to 50%'
claim excludes the Questwealth Conservative Portfolio. The up to 50% claim illustrates how investing with 4 out of the 5 Questwealth Portfolios ('QWP') could improve your retirement savings using a hypothetical
example. The example assumes $50,000 compounds annually over 30 years at a growth rate equal to the average 5-year historical return of comparable mutual fund categories. Potential savings are based on a comparison of the highest
MER charged by QWP versus the average MER of the Series 'A' mutual funds in the respective fund categories. Fees may change over time and actual results may vary. No representations and warranties are made as to the reasonableness
of these assumptions. QWP is a service provided by Questrade Wealth Management Inc. Learn more at questrade.com/questwealth-portfolios .
5 You can transfer any account to Questrade from another financial institution, regardless of the balance, and get your transfer fees rebated (maximum rebate $150/account). No limit to the number of accounts you bring
over. For a rebate, submit a statement from your financial institution displaying the transfer fees incurred within 60 days of the transfer request being submitted to Questrade. For Questwealth™ accounts, all-in-kind and
partial transfers of your securities will be liquidated. Transfers from cash accounts may be subject to capital gains taxes or provide capital losses upon liquidation. Exchange and ECN fees may apply. Terms and conditions are subject
to change without notice.
Extended hours are available for US markets (NYSE and NASDAQ) 7am-8pm ET and Canadian markets (TSX) 4:15pm-5pm ET.
Dual Currency Questrade accounts allow clients to hold US dollars. Please visit our pricing page for further details.
In 2024, Questrade was awarded the DALBAR Seal of Service Excellence for the sixth consecutive year. The recognition is given to firms across the financial services industry that demonstrate standout customer service and an exceptional
standard of care, including telephone interactions and service delivery.
Socially Responsible Investing (SRI) For Questwealth SRI portfolios, as there is no universal Socially Responsible Investing (“SRI”) methodology, the selection of the underlying
securities in the Questwealth SRI portfolios is based on inputs from various industry sources, including Environmental, Social, Governance, and SRI methodologies. Certain portions of the fixed income component of the Questwealth
SRI portfolios may not be recognized by these methodologies as exclusively SRI investments.
Stock tools, insights, and guidance ('Services') are provided by a third-party service provider - TipRanks. The availability of these Services and the information that may be conveyed through them do not constitute any form of
advice or recommendation by Questrade, Inc. (Questrade). Questrade cannot guarantee the timeliness, accuracy, and reliability of these Services and the information that may be conveyed through their use. Questrade will not
be held liable nor assume any liability for any loss or damages arising directly or indirectly from the use of these Services. Any liability, whether direct or indirect, or consequential loss or damage, is explicitly disclaimed.
The TipRanks display image is provided for informational purposes only and is not based on a real stock.
Orders placed outside of standard market hours are processed immediately upon market opening. Excludes market closures and unforeseen events.
Questrade may close or modify fractional share positions in stocks or ETFs no longer eligible for fractional trading at any given time. Questrade Fractional Shares Disclosure Statement
Questrade Pro Beta is a pre-release version and may be subject to bugs or interruptions. Your participation signifies an understanding and acceptance of the inherent risks of testing software in a live environment.
Options trading involves risks and is not suitable for all investors, as the special risks inherent to this type of trade may expose investors to potentially rapid and substantial losses.
We care deeply about making Canadians much more financially successful and secure
Open an account
Accounts & Assets
TFSA
RRSP
FHSA
RESP
Margin
Cash Account
Stocks & ETFs
Options
Pre-IPO
Private Credit
Managed
Portfolios
Products
Questrade Pro
Agentic Finance
Custom Indexing
Questrade Plus
Equity
Engine
About Us
Why Questrade
Promotions
Learning
Support
Press & Media
Accessibility Tool
Careers
Pricing & Fees
Legal notices
& disclosures
Privacy & Security
Site map
Accessibility Statement
CIRO AdvisorReport
Questrade Wealth Management Inc. (QWM) and Questrade, Inc. are wholly owned subsidiaries of Questrade Financial Group Inc. Questrade, Inc. is a registered investment dealer, a member of the Canadian Investment Regulatory Organization (CIRO)
and a member of the Canadian Investor Protection Fund (CIPF), the benefits of which are limited to the activities undertaken by Questrade, Inc. QWM is not a member of CIRO or the CIPF. Questrade, Inc. provides administrative, trade execution,
custodial and reporting services to you. QWM is a registered Portfolio Manager, Investment Fund Manager, and Exempt Market Dealer and is responsible for managing your account and the investment portfolios within it by providing trade instructions
to Questrade, Inc. Questwealth Portfolios® is a service provided by QWM.
This webpage is being provided to you for information purposes only, and should not be used or construed as investment, tax or financial advice.
© 2026 , Questrade, Inc. All Rights Reserved.