Options - RBC Direct Investing
RBC Mobile
Royal Bank of Canada - NEW! RBC Direct Investing Tab.
Free On Google Play
INSTALL
RBC Mobile
Royal Bank of Canada - NEW! RBC Direct Investing Tab.
Free in App Store
INSTALL
Skip to main content
EN
Contact Us
Call 1-800-769-2560
Email Us
Visit Us
Direct
Investing
Search RBC...
Open An
Account
Sign In
Direct
Investing
OPEN AN ACCOUNT
SIGN IN
MENU
Ask your question
GoSmart for New Investors
Established Investors
Full Suite Account Experience
Explore Full Suite from RBC Direct Investing: the research, tools, and market access growing portfolios demand.
Trading Platforms Overview
Invest when and how you want with access to three powerful platforms.
Tools & Research Overview
Get the tools and research you need to empower and inform your investing decisions.
Client Privileges
Discover ways you can enjoy special privileges and cost savings at RBC Direct Investing.
Customer Support
Let us help you find the answers you’re looking for.
Trading Platforms
Online Investing Platform
Feel more equipped, empowered and confident with every trade.
Mobile Trading
Monitor your investments and trade on the go with the RBC Mobile app.
Trading Dashboard
Access powerful tools and customize them to match your trading style. All for no extra charge.
Practice Accounts
RBC clients can experience RBC Direct Investing online and practice trading risk-free.
Pre-Market & After-Hours Trading
Stay Ahead of the Markets with Pre-Market and After-Hours Trading.
Tools & Research
SPECIAL OFFER
-->
Learn and Explore at Your Own Pace
Take baby steps—or dive right in—with resources that are designed to help you take control.
Find Opportunities & Validate Ideas
Everything you need to build your portfolio, from analyst-built screeners to world-class research.
Invest and Trade in the Moment
Take action with the real-time data you need to make confident decisions.
Track and Manage Your Investments
Keep an eye on your investments and your goals on track.
Accounts & Investments
Accounts & Investments Overview
Get your money working harder for you.
Learn About Accounts & Investments
Get the information you need about accounts and investments in the Investing Academy.
NEW
GoSmart Investing
Easy-to-use, commission-free account to get your money working harder in TFSAs, FHSAs & RRSPs.
NEW
GoSmart Comparison
Compare GoSmart for new investors vs RBC Direct Investing for established investors.
Commissions, Fees & Rates
No maintenance fees. Commission-free trading on select ETFs & all mutual funds. View all pricing.
Accounts
Registered Accounts
Invest your money and grow it with tax advantages in accounts like TFSAs, FHSAs, RRSPs and more.
Tax Free Savings Accounts (TFSAs)
Save for anything with a TFSA and pay no taxes on your investment income or withdrawals.
First Home Savings Accounts (FHSA)
Save for your first home and pay no taxes on your investment income or withdrawals.
Registered Retirement Savings Plan (RRSP)
Invest for the retirement you want and receive tax benefits now.
Non-Registered Accounts
No limit on contributions in a non-registered account, but earned income is taxable.
Investments
Stocks
Trade exchange-listed Canadian & U.S. stocks, 100s are dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) eligible.
Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs)
Research & trade thousands of Canadian and U.S. ETFs, including 50+ select commission-free ETFS.
Mutual Funds
Pay no commissions when you buy and sell money market, fixed-income, equity, balanced mutual funds.
Commission-Free ETFs
Explore the list of 50+ commission-free ETFs.
Initial Public Offerings (IPOs)
Express your interest in upcoming IPOs and new issues through the RBC Direct Investing IPO Centre.
Support
Manage Your Account
Transfer money, get the forms you need and more.
Learn to Trade and Invest
Discover resources that can help you invest on your own.
FAQs
Find answers to the most common questions we get about RBC Direct Investing.
Customer Support
Let us help you find the answers you’re looking for.
Manage
Fund Your Account
Put money in your account and invest it when the opportunity strikes.
Explore Platform Tutorials
Check out our videos and demos to see how to fund your account, transfer assets and more.
Download Forms
Find and download forms for margin trading, transfers, withdrawals, beneficiaries and more.
Learn
Practice Accounts
RBC clients can experience RBC Direct Investing online and practice trading risk-free.
Investing Academy
Build your knowledge with guides on topics like investing in stocks, options ETFs and more.
Free Investment Seminars
Learn the foundations of do-it-yourself investing & build confidence with free investment seminars.
Search RBC
Personal Banking
Offers
Contact Us
Location
Options Trading
Start Investing Today
Open an Account
For Advanced Trading
Trade Options on Three Powerful Platforms
Execute your advanced strategies with an options-enabled account using the Online Investing platform, the Trading Dashboard or the RBC Mobile app Legal Disclaimer footnote 1 .
Why RBC Direct Investing?
How To Trade Options
Pricing
Learn
FAQs
Act on Your Advanced Investing Strategies
Filter, research and trade options on all three trading platforms , including the RBC Mobile app
Purchase call and put options , write covered calls and, with special exception, write naked puts
There are two main types of options contracts: calls and puts. Owning a call gives you the right to buy the underlying asset; owning a put gives you the right to sell that underlying asset. An easy way to keep them straight is to remember that a call would "call" an asset away, while a put would "put" it to someone else.
Close
Covered call writing means selling a call option on a stock you own. The strategy is to generate income by writing (selling) a call and collecting the premium; however, this strategy might limit your upside if the stock price increases beyond the strike price. This is generally used by investors who don't anticipate much price movement in the stock price over the short term.
Close
More suitable for advanced traders, a naked option involves selling a call or put contract without holding a position (long or short) in the underlying asset. It is a risky strategy, as the investor is unprotected, or "naked," from potentially unlimited loss.
Close
Hold options in a range of accounts , including a TFSA, FHSA, RRSP, cash or margin account
Track stock and ETF prices in the moment with free real-time streaming quotes Legal Disclaimer footnote 2
Analyze detailed options metrics, including Greeks, in the custom Trading Dashboard
Learn about options using the Options Trading Guide in the Investing Academy
Practice trading options and more
Use a risk-free Practice Account to try out the Online Investing platform and experiment with options trading before you commit real money. Free for RBC Royal Bank and RBC Direct Investing clients.
Explore Practice Accounts
Trade Options Online
See how to research options and place an options order on the Trading Dashboard:
How to Research Options in the Trading Dashboard
Read or Watch Now (How to Research Options in the Trading Dashboard)
-->
How to Place an Options Order in the Trading Dashboard
Read or Watch Now (How to Place an Options Order in the Trading Dashboard)
-->
Go to previous slide
Go to next slide
Get More for Your Money
Pay a flat commission and access real-time streaming quotes, the Trading Dashboard and more at no extra cost:
Online or Mobile
With a Rep
See All Pricing
$9.95
-->
All Clients—no minimum trade requirements
$9.95 + $1.25 per options contract Legal Disclaimer footnote 3 , Legal Disclaimer footnote 4
$6.95
-->
Clients with 150 or more trades per quarter
$6.95 + $1.25 per options contract
See All Pricing
$35
-->
Minimum commission is $43 per transaction.
Canadian and U.S. stock or options transactions with a principal dollar value of $2,000 or less may be placed with an Investment Services Representative for $43.
$35 + $1.75 per options contract
Discover More About Options
What are Options?
Types of Options: Calls and Puts Explained
Options Trading Strategies
Build Your Knowledge with Inspired Investor Trade
Check out Inspired Investor Trade and visit the Investing Academy to learn more about trading and investing in stocks, options, ETFs and more.
Start Trading Options
Trade options on three powerful platforms.
Open an Account
Get 100% reimbursement for any unauthorized transactions conducted through the Online Investing platform.
See the Guarantee
Options FAQs
What are options?
Options are essentially contracts between two parties that give you the right to buy or sell an underlying asset at a certain price within a specific amount of time.
An option's value is tied to the underlying asset, which could be stocks, bonds, currency, interest rates, market indices, exchange-traded funds (ETFs) or futures contracts. Options are securities themselves, like a stock or bond, and because they derive their value from something else, they're called derivatives.
There are two main types of options contracts: calls and puts. Owning a call gives you the right to buy the underlying asset; owning a put gives you the right to sell that underlying asset. An easy way to keep them straight is to remember that a call would "call" an asset away, while a put would "put" it to someone else.
What are the benefits of options?
Options can support a variety of profit and risk-minimization strategies. In the case of stocks, for instance, options can help you:
Protect stock holdings from a decline in market price
Generate income from your existing portfolio
Acquire stock at a price below the current price
Profit from a stock price's rise or fall
What options strategies does RBC Direct Investing allow?
You can purchase call options and put options, write covered calls and, with special exception, write naked puts. Additional spread strategies are not allowed.
View Legal Disclaimers Hide Legal Disclaimers
Images presented are for illustrative purposes and may not represent the actual web pages within the RBC Direct Investing online investing site.
Legal Disclaimer footnote ‡
All other trademarks are the property of their respective owner(s).
Legal Disclaimer footnote 1
RBC Mobile is operated by Royal Bank of Canada, RBC Direct Investing Inc. and RBC Dominion Securities Inc.
Legal Disclaimer footnote 2
Real-time streaming quotes are available automatically to all clients for exchange listed equities, ETFs and most over-the-counter (OTC) securities. Real-time streaming quotes for options and grey market OTC securities are available to Active Traders and Royal Circle clients upon accepting the terms and conditions of all exchange agreements on the RBC Direct Investing online investing site.
Legal Disclaimer footnote 3
All RBC Direct Investing clients pay $9.95 flat CDN or U.S. per Canadian or U.S. equity trade with no minimum account balance or trading activity required. A lesser fee of $6.95 flat CDN or U.S. per Canadian or U.S. equity trade applies when you trade 150 times or more per quarter, and only to trades placed through an available Automated Service (such term is defined in RBC Direct Investing’s Operation of Account Agreement), and includes the online investing site and mobile application. Additional terms and conditions apply. For complete details, including international trading commissions, visit Pricing or call 1-800-769-2560 .
Legal Disclaimer footnote 4
For option assignments and exercises the investment services representative equity rates apply.
Account Types
FHSA
TFSA
RRSP
RESP
RRIF
Cash Account
Margin Account
Business, Trust and Other Investment Accounts
View all account types
New Investors
GoSmart Account
GoSmart Comparison
Investment Choices
Stocks
ETFs
Commission-free ETFs
GICs
Options
Mutual Funds
Bonds
IPOs
View All investment choices
Established Investors
Trading Platforms
Investment Tools & Research
Pricing
Commissions, Fees & Rates
International Trading
Client Privileges
Active Trader Program
Exclusive Benefits for RBC Clients
Invest with Avion points™
Royal Circle
Royal Distinction
Security & Privacy
Online Security Guarantee
Protecting Your Privacy
Help & Support
Manage Your Account
Download Forms
FAQs
Learn to Trade and Invest
Contact Us
Download RBC Mobile App
Android RBC app
iPhone RBC app
RBC Direct Investing Inc. Website, 1-800-769-2560, RBC WaterPark Place, 88 Queens Quay West, Toronto, ON, M5J 0B8 © 1995-
Legal | Accessibility | Privacy & Security | Advertising & Cookies | Unclaimed Property | CIRO – Advisor Report | Member-Canadian Investor Protection Fund | Make a Complaint
Back to Top