Double Payout Caps Terms & Conditions
Skip to Main Content
Funded Trading
Prop Firm
How It Works
Topstep Octagon
Instant Payouts
Brokerage
TopstepX
Blog
Support
Trader Support
Help Center
Status Page
Discord
Login
Sign Up
Sign Up
Double Payout Caps
Terms & Conditions
For a limited time, traders who add a Daily Loss Limit (DLL) to their Topstep account will unlock double the standard payout caps across every account size in which a DLL is active.
Offer is available to all active Topstep account holders in good standing, including existing traders and new signups.
This offer begins on June 2, 2026.
No end date has been established at this time.
Topstep reserves the right to modify or terminate this offer at any time, with or without prior notice, at its sole discretion. Offer
cannot be combined with other promotional offers unless expressly stated by Topstep in writing. Offer has no cash value and may not be substituted for cash, credit, or any other item of value.
Void where prohibited by law. Participation in this promotion does not guarantee trading profits or payouts and are subject to all applicable laws and additional terms, including those in the Terms of Use at
https://www.topstep.com
. All terms and conditions are subject to change at Topstep’s sole discretion.
Company
Trader Support
Help Center
Status Page
Blog
Press
About Us
Our Team
Careers
Our program
Live Funded Account Rules
Express Funded Account Rules
Responsible Trading Program
Payout FAQs
Instant Payouts
Products & offerings
Topstep (Prop firm)
Topstep Brokerage
TopstepX
TopstepTV
Topstep Octagon
Topstep Labs
Legal & Regulatory
Privacy policy
Terms of Use
Disclosures & Notices
Manage Cookie Preferences
All investing involves risk
Not a Deposit | Not FDIC Insured | May Lose Value
Topstep and Affiliated Entities
Topstep disclaimer.
Topstep LLC and its affiliates (collectively, “Topstep”) provide information on this website for general informational purposes only. Testimonials appearing on Topstep’s websites may not be representative of other clients or customers and are not a guarantee of future performance or success. Use of the information on Topstep’s websites is at your own risk and Topstep and its partners, representatives, agents, employees, and contractors assume no responsibility or liability for any use or misuse of such information. Topstep does not provide tax, legal, investment, or accounting advice. You should consult your own advisors before engaging in any transaction.
The following entities are affiliated but separate entities and wholly owned subsidiaries of Topstep LLC.
‍
‍
Introducing brokerage services
are offered through Topstep Brokerage LLC (“Topstep Brokerage”), a registered introducing broker and a member of the National Futures Association. More information about the firm may be found
here
under NFA ID# 0567079. Please review
Topstep Brokerage’s Risk Disclosures Statement
. Futures accounts are not protected by the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC).
Simulated trading program services
, comprising the Trading Combine, and the Express Funded Account, and Topstep Labs experiments are operated by TopstepTrader, LLC (“TopstepTrader”). Please review the
Risk Disclosures
.
Live funded proprietary trading firm services
are operated by TopstepFunded LLC (“TopstepFunded”). TopstepFunded offers live funded proprietary trading firm for individuals demonstrating proficiency in TopstepTrader’s simulated trading evaluation program. Please review the
Risk Disclosures
.
The
TopstepX trading platform
is a trading platform designed to help retail traders develop sound habits, discipline, and risk management. It is developed and owned by ProjectX Trading LLC (“TopstepX”). Additional information and terms of use can be found
here
and
here
.
TopstepTV
is a digital media network offering real-time trading insights and education owned and operated by TopstepTV LLC (“TopstepTV”). Please review the
TopstepTV Risk Disclosures
.
The Futures Desk
is an online proprietary trading firm that evaluates and funds retail futures traders owned by TS TFD Buyer, LLC (“The Futures Desk”). Additional information and terms and conditions can be found
here
and
here
.
General Risk Disclosures
Commodity trading involves substantial risk of loss.
All investments involve risk, and not all risks are suitable for every investor. The value of investments may fluctuate and as a result, clients may lose more than their original investment. The past performance of a financial product does not guarantee future results or returns. Please carefully consider whether it is appropriate for you to engage in futures trading in light of your personal financial circumstances. You should only use funds that you can afford to lose without affecting your financial security or lifestyle, and only a portion of those funds should be used to support a single trade because you cannot expect to profit on every trade. To learn more about the risks of trading, please visit our
Risk Disclosure
.
System Risk.
Trading through an electronic trading or order routing system exposes you to risks associated with system or component failure. System response and account access times may vary due to a variety of factors, including trading volumes, market conditions, system performance, and other factors.
Trading Combine and Topstep Labs Experiments.
The Trading Combine, Express Funded Accounts and Topstep Labs experiments are realistic simulations of trading under actual market conditions and are difficult to pass even for experienced traders. Simulated performance results have certain limitations. Unlike an actual performance record, simulated results do not represent actual trading. Also, because the trades have not actually been executed, the results may have under- or over-compensated for the impact, if any, of certain market factors, such as lack of liquidity. Simulated trading programs, in general, are also subject to the fact that they are designed with the benefit of hindsight. Simulated trading does not involve financial risk, and no simulated trading record can completely account for the impact of financial risk in actual trading. For example, the ability to withstand losses or adhere to a particular trading program in spite of trading losses are material points which can also adversely affect actual trading results. No representation is being made that any account will or is likely to achieve profit or losses similar to those shown.
2025 Trader Performance Statistics.
From January through December 2025, (a) 16.8% of all Trading Combines initiated were successfully completed and afforded the opportunity to advance to the Funded Level, (b) 51.8% of individual participants who entered one or more Trading Combines advanced to the Funded Level in at least one of their Trading Combines, (c) 33.3% of all individual participants at the Funded Level received a payout, and (d) 0.71% of individual participants trading in an Express Funded Account were called up to a Live Funded Account. The Funded Level includes both Express Funded Accounts and Live Funded Accounts, with the aggregate of such accounts used in the percentage determination. These statistics reflect performance in both a simulated trading environment and a live trading environment and are not indicative of future results.
NO INVESTMENT ADVICE.
NOTHING CONTAINED IN THIS WEBSITE CONSTITUTES INVESTMENT ADVICE, NOR DOES IT CONSTITUTE THE SOLICITATION, ENDORSEMENT, OR RECOMMENDATION OF THE PURCHASE OR SALE OF ANY FUTURES OR OTHER FINANCIAL PRODUCT. THE WEBSITE CONTENT IS FOR GENERAL INFORMATION ONLY AND SHOULD NOT BE REGARDED AS CONSTITUTING AN OFFER, SOLICITATION, ENDORSEMENT, OR RECOMMENDATION TO BUY OR SELL ANY FUTURES OR OTHER FINANCIAL PRODUCT AND SHOULD NOT BE REGARDED AS INVESTMENT ADVICE.