Live Funded Account Rules | Topstep
Skip to Main Content
Funded Trading
Prop Firm
How It Works
Topstep Octagon
Instant Payouts
Brokerage
TopstepX
Blog
Support
Trader Support
Help Center
Status Page
Discord
Login
Sign Up
Sign Up
Live Funded Account
‍
trading rules
Last updated: July 1, 2026. These rules apply to all activity in your Live Funded Account and are part of the agreement you accepted with TopstepFunded LLC (“Topstep”). By using a Live Funded Account, you confirm that you understand and agree to follow all of these rules and any updates we make.
How these rules work
These rules work alongside your Live Funded Account Agreement. If there is ever a conflict between the two, these rules take precedence.
​
Topstep reserves the right to update these rules at any time, with or without notice.
​
You must follow all rules outlined here or in any other communication from Topstep.
​
Payout eligibility and the processing of payouts are governed by these rules and the terms of the Agreement.
​
By trading in your Live Funded Account following any update to these rules, you confirm that you have read, understand and agree to the most current version of these rules.
Review of activity
Topstep determines whether you are following the rules based on your actual trading activity. This is not based on what appears in your trading reports or on your trading platform
Live Funded Account overview
The Live Funded Account call up is designed to help traders transition successfully from simulated performance to live trading through a performance-based capital release structure.
When called up to Live:
You begin with
20% of your eligible starting account balance available for trading
The
remaining balance becomes available as defined profit milestones are achieved
Additional balance access is released as you achieve defined profit milestones
Capital expansion is reviewed weekly
Payout eligibility is separate from capital expansion
This structure allows traders to safely scale in while adjusting to live market conditions, working with the risk team, and maintaining a clear path to full account access.
Starting account balance
Your Live Funded Account includes two key values:
1. Live account size
Topstep allows traders to have one active Live Funded Account at a time. This step determines the
account size of your Live Funded Account if you have multiple Express Funded Account sizes
.
Your Live Funded Account size is based on the
average account size
of your active and eligible Express Funded Accounts.
Only accounts with at least
one payout
are included
The average is
rounded up
to the next tier of
$50K, $100K, or $150K
Your Live Funded Account maximum starting balance, rules, and limits are based on this capped size
2. Starting balance and unlock structure
Your actual
Starting Balance
is based on the
combined total balance
of your eligible Express Funded Accounts, up to your Live Account maximum starting balance.
Example
: 2×$50K + $100K + $150K →
$87.5K average → rounds to $100K Live size
.
At Live activation:
20% of your combined total balance
is available for trading
The remaining balance unlocks in
25% increments
through performance milestones
Each unlock releases
25% of your reserve balance
, until you reach your Live Account starting balance
Topstep may make discretionary exceptions for select traders based on performance and risk evaluation.
Balance expansion through performance
Additional available
balance becomes
accessible through
net profit milestones
achieved in the Live Funded Account. These milestones are the same profit targets achieved in the Trading Combine.
Additional rules:
Balance expansion does
not change payout eligibility rules
Profits must be
net since the last unlocked available balance event
Expansion is reviewed
no more than once per calendar week
Your net profits will be measured
after market close on Friday of each week
Approved unlocked available balances are typically applied
by the following Tuesday
Traders may continue unlocking balance access until
100% of the account Starting Balance has been made available for trading
.
Dynamic live risk expansion
Your Daily Loss Limit adjusts with your account balance, so the more you profit, the more room you’ll have to trade. Once you reach $100,000, you can contact the Trade Desk to request higher contract limits. If your account enters a drawdown, a Shoulder Tap helps manage risk by tightening limits until you recover.
Daily Loss Limit
Your Daily Loss Limit and starting contract limits are set by your Live account size. If the Daily Loss Limit is reached, positions are flattened, orders are canceled, and trading pauses until the next session. This pause is not a rule violation.
Review the full rules
Review the full rules
Your Daily Loss Limit continues to scale
up or down
with your available balance.
If the Daily Loss Limit is reached:
Positions are flattened
Orders are canceled
Trading is paused until the next trading session
This pause is
not a rule violation
.
*If the account is auto liquidated with a balance less than $1,000 the account will be closed and the remaining account balance will be paid out to the trader.
The Topstep Octagon
The Topstep Octagon is a performance bonus incentive program that allows Live Funded traders to earn monthly performance bonuses based on their net profit and loss for any calendar month.
Performance bonuses are independent of payouts and balance expansion, and any performance bonuses will be paid directly into your Live Funded Account. You can find all the details
here
.
Stay live. Know the rules.
Daily Loss Limit
Trader may not hit or exceed the Daily Loss Limit (as described
here
) while trading. Hitting or exceeding the Daily Loss Limit will suspend Trader’s ability to trade for the remainder of the then current trading session, which resets for the next trading session (as set forth
here
).
Maximum Loss Limit
Trader may not hit or exceed the Maximum Loss Limit (as described
here
). Currently, your Maximum Loss Limit is $1,000. For the remainder of your Live Funded Account, you will need to make sure your account balance stays above $1,000 (positive).
Permitted trading hours and products
Products may be traded during normal electronic trading hours unless otherwise indicated. Abbreviated holiday hours can be found on Topstep’s website. All positions MUST be closed prior to 3:10 PM CT or prior to the market close of that product, whichever is sooner.
Additional terms and info
Daily Loss Limit and flatten all option
The Daily Loss Limit is a protective threshold designed to help you manage risk. If your Net P&L reaches or exceeds this limit during the trading day (defined as 5:00 PM CT to 3:10 PM CT), your account will enter a soft breach.
‍
Here’s what that means:
Your open positions will be closed (flattened).
Any pending orders will be canceled.
You’ll be locked out from placing new trades until the next trading day begins (5:00 PM CT).
This lockout is not a rule violation. It’s a pause meant to protect your account and give you time to regroup.
To help you stay within your limits, we’ll also automatically flatten all positions about ten seconds before the trading session ends (3:10 PM CT), as determined by Topstep.
Holiday trading
Holiday hours can impact your trading schedule and data fees. Here’s what you need to know:
Holiday Flattening Requirements:
You must close all trades during the holiday hours outlined in our
Holiday Schedule
. These requirements may differ from standard trading days.
Data Fees and Holidays:
Data fees are not prorated for months with holiday trading restrictions. If you plan not to trade for the entire month, including holiday hours, and want to avoid being charged a data fee, you must email our team before the 26th of the previous month to request removal.
Important:
We do our best to notify you of holiday trading changes, but if you’ve unsubscribed from Topstep emails, you won’t receive alerts. To stay in the loop, please
resubscribe to emails here
.
Monetary terms and conditions
Payout Eligibility and Limitations
A “Benchmark Trading Day” is a market day where you actively trade and earn at least $150 in Trading Profits (adjusted for holidays). You
will not receive credit
toward Live Funded Account Benchmark Trading Days for any Benchmark Trading Days earned in an Express Funded Account.
Payout eligibility in the Live Funded Account remains
separate from balance expansion
.
‍
To be eligible for a payout:
You must have at least 5 Benchmark Trading Days since either your Live Funded Account Effective Date or your last payout, whichever is later.
Your initial and following payouts are limited to 50% of your share of Trading Profits until you reach 30 Benchmark Trading Days in your Live Funded Account.
Once you have 30 Benchmark Trading Days in your Live Funded Account, you may:
Request 100% of your share of Trading Profits.
Request one payout per business day, provided other rules are followed.
To comply with exchange and regulatory guidance, Topstep will monitor your account to ensure total payouts do not exceed 90% of the Starting Balance plus net Trading Profits. If needed, deductions may be made to stay within that limit.
Topstep will monitor your account to ensure total payouts do not exceed 90% of the Starting Balance plus net Trading Profits. If needed, deductions may be made to stay within that limit.
Trading in an Express Funded Account?
Make sure you’re familiar with the rules and objectives of the Express Funded Account before progressing to a Live Funded Account.
View Express Funded Account rules
View Express Funded Account rules
Company
Trader Support
Help Center
Status Page
Blog
Press
About Us
Our Team
Careers
Our program
Live Funded Account Rules
Express Funded Account Rules
Responsible Trading Program
Payout FAQs
Instant Payouts
Products & offerings
Topstep (Prop firm)
Topstep Brokerage
TopstepX
TopstepTV
Topstep Octagon
Topstep Labs
Legal & Regulatory
Privacy policy
Terms of Use
Disclosures & Notices
Manage Cookie Preferences
All investing involves risk
Not a Deposit | Not FDIC Insured | May Lose Value
Topstep and Affiliated Entities
Topstep disclaimer.
Topstep LLC and its affiliates (collectively, “Topstep”) provide information on this website for general informational purposes only. Testimonials appearing on Topstep’s websites may not be representative of other clients or customers and are not a guarantee of future performance or success. Use of the information on Topstep’s websites is at your own risk and Topstep and its partners, representatives, agents, employees, and contractors assume no responsibility or liability for any use or misuse of such information. Topstep does not provide tax, legal, investment, or accounting advice. You should consult your own advisors before engaging in any transaction.
The following entities are affiliated but separate entities and wholly owned subsidiaries of Topstep LLC.
‍
‍
Introducing brokerage services
are offered through Topstep Brokerage LLC (“Topstep Brokerage”), a registered introducing broker and a member of the National Futures Association. More information about the firm may be found
here
under NFA ID# 0567079. Please review
Topstep Brokerage’s Risk Disclosures Statement
. Futures accounts are not protected by the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC).
Simulated trading program services
, comprising the Trading Combine, and the Express Funded Account, and Topstep Labs experiments are operated by TopstepTrader, LLC (“TopstepTrader”). Please review the
Risk Disclosures
.
Live funded proprietary trading firm services
are operated by TopstepFunded LLC (“TopstepFunded”). TopstepFunded offers live funded proprietary trading firm for individuals demonstrating proficiency in TopstepTrader’s simulated trading evaluation program. Please review the
Risk Disclosures
.
The
TopstepX trading platform
is a trading platform designed to help retail traders develop sound habits, discipline, and risk management. It is developed and owned by ProjectX Trading LLC (“TopstepX”). Additional information and terms of use can be found
here
and
here
.
TopstepTV
is a digital media network offering real-time trading insights and education owned and operated by TopstepTV LLC (“TopstepTV”). Please review the
TopstepTV Risk Disclosures
.
The Futures Desk
is an online proprietary trading firm that evaluates and funds retail futures traders owned by TS TFD Buyer, LLC (“The Futures Desk”). Additional information and terms and conditions can be found
here
and
here
.
General Risk Disclosures
Commodity trading involves substantial risk of loss.
All investments involve risk, and not all risks are suitable for every investor. The value of investments may fluctuate and as a result, clients may lose more than their original investment. The past performance of a financial product does not guarantee future results or returns. Please carefully consider whether it is appropriate for you to engage in futures trading in light of your personal financial circumstances. You should only use funds that you can afford to lose without affecting your financial security or lifestyle, and only a portion of those funds should be used to support a single trade because you cannot expect to profit on every trade. To learn more about the risks of trading, please visit our
Risk Disclosure
.
System Risk.
Trading through an electronic trading or order routing system exposes you to risks associated with system or component failure. System response and account access times may vary due to a variety of factors, including trading volumes, market conditions, system performance, and other factors.
Trading Combine and Topstep Labs Experiments.
The Trading Combine, Express Funded Accounts and Topstep Labs experiments are realistic simulations of trading under actual market conditions and are difficult to pass even for experienced traders. Simulated performance results have certain limitations. Unlike an actual performance record, simulated results do not represent actual trading. Also, because the trades have not actually been executed, the results may have under- or over-compensated for the impact, if any, of certain market factors, such as lack of liquidity. Simulated trading programs, in general, are also subject to the fact that they are designed with the benefit of hindsight. Simulated trading does not involve financial risk, and no simulated trading record can completely account for the impact of financial risk in actual trading. For example, the ability to withstand losses or adhere to a particular trading program in spite of trading losses are material points which can also adversely affect actual trading results. No representation is being made that any account will or is likely to achieve profit or losses similar to those shown.
2025 Trader Performance Statistics.
From January through December 2025, (a) 16.8% of all Trading Combines initiated were successfully completed and afforded the opportunity to advance to the Funded Level, (b) 51.8% of individual participants who entered one or more Trading Combines advanced to the Funded Level in at least one of their Trading Combines, (c) 33.3% of all individual participants at the Funded Level received a payout, and (d) 0.71% of individual participants trading in an Express Funded Account were called up to a Live Funded Account. The Funded Level includes both Express Funded Accounts and Live Funded Accounts, with the aggregate of such accounts used in the percentage determination. These statistics reflect performance in both a simulated trading environment and a live trading environment and are not indicative of future results.
NO INVESTMENT ADVICE.
NOTHING CONTAINED IN THIS WEBSITE CONSTITUTES INVESTMENT ADVICE, NOR DOES IT CONSTITUTE THE SOLICITATION, ENDORSEMENT, OR RECOMMENDATION OF THE PURCHASE OR SALE OF ANY FUTURES OR OTHER FINANCIAL PRODUCT. THE WEBSITE CONTENT IS FOR GENERAL INFORMATION ONLY AND SHOULD NOT BE REGARDED AS CONSTITUTING AN OFFER, SOLICITATION, ENDORSEMENT, OR RECOMMENDATION TO BUY OR SELL ANY FUTURES OR OTHER FINANCIAL PRODUCT AND SHOULD NOT BE REGARDED AS INVESTMENT ADVICE.